src/app/introduction-to-typescript/overview/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

### Table of Contents

## Overview

TypeScript is a statically typed superset of JavaScript that adds optional type annotations and other features to the language. It is designed to help developers write more robust and maintainable code by catching errors at compile time rather than runtime. TypeScript is widely used in modern web development, especially in large-scale applications where type safety and code organization are crucial.

This basically means that TypeScript adds syntax on top of JavaScript, allowing developers to add **types**. This helps catch errors early in the development process, making it easier to maintain and refactor code. TypeScript compiles down to plain JavaScript, which means it can run in any environment that supports JavaScript, including browsers and Node.js.

TypeScript was developed by Microsoft and has gained significant popularity in the developer community due to its ability to improve code quality, enhance developer productivity, and provide better tooling support. It is often used in conjunction with popular frameworks like React, Angular, and Vue.js. TypeScript is an open-source project, and its development is driven by a large community of contributors. It has become the de facto standard for type-safe JavaScript development, offering a powerful alternative to traditional JavaScript coding practices.

#### TypeScript vs JavaScript

| Feature           | TypeScript                             | JavaScript                          |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Static Typing     | Yes, optional static typing            | No, dynamic typing                  |
| Type Inference    | Yes, supports type inference           | No, types are inferred at runtime   |
| Compilation       | Compiles to JavaScript                 | Interpreted at runtime              |
| Tooling Support   | Excellent IDE support, type checking   | Basic tooling support               |
| Learning Curve    | Steeper due to type system             | Easier for beginners                |
| Ecosystem         | Rich ecosystem with type definitions   | Large ecosystem, no types           |
| Community Support | Strong community and Microsoft backing | Large community, widely adopted     |
| Adoption          | Increasingly popular in large projects | Widely used for all web development |

TypeScript enhances JavaScript by introducing static typing, which allows developers to define types for variables, function parameters, and return values. This helps catch type-related errors during development, leading to more reliable and maintainable code. In contrast, JavaScript is dynamically typed, meaning types are determined at runtime, which can lead to unexpected behavior if not carefully managed.

TypeScript also provides features like interfaces, enums, and generics, which help developers create more structured and reusable code. These features are not available in JavaScript, making TypeScript a powerful tool for building large-scale applications.

TypeScript is often used in conjunction with modern JavaScript frameworks and libraries, such as React, Angular, and Vue.js, to enhance the development experience and improve code quality. It allows developers to take advantage of the latest JavaScript features while providing additional type safety and tooling support.

## Key Features of TypeScript

- **Static Typing**: TypeScript allows developers to define types for variables, function parameters, and return values, enabling better type checking and error detection during development.
- **Type Inference**: TypeScript can automatically infer types based on the context, reducing the need for explicit type annotations in many cases.
- **Interfaces and Type Aliases**: TypeScript provides interfaces and type aliases to define custom types, making it easier to create complex data structures and enforce type contracts.
- **Generics**: TypeScript supports generics, allowing developers to create reusable components and functions that can work with different types while maintaining type safety.
- **Advanced Type Features**: TypeScript includes advanced type features such as union types, intersection types, and mapped types, enabling developers to create flexible and powerful type definitions.
- **Decorators**: TypeScript supports decorators, which are a way to add metadata to classes and methods, enabling powerful features like dependency injection and aspect-oriented programming.
- **Namespaces and Modules**: TypeScript provides a module system that allows developers to organize code into reusable modules, promoting better code organization and encapsulation.
- **Tooling Support**: TypeScript has excellent tooling support, including IDE integration, code completion, and refactoring tools, which enhance the developer experience and productivity.
- **Compatibility with JavaScript**: TypeScript is fully compatible with existing JavaScript code, allowing developers to gradually adopt TypeScript in their projects without rewriting everything from scratch.
- **Rich Ecosystem**: TypeScript has a large ecosystem of libraries and frameworks that provide type definitions, making it easier to use popular JavaScript libraries with TypeScript.

#### Benefits of Using TypeScript

- **Improved Code Quality**

```typescript
// JavaScript
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b; // Could lead to unexpected results
}

// TypeScript
function add(a: number, b: number): number {
  return a + b; // Type-safe operation
}
```

- **Enhanced Developer Experience**

  - Better IDE support
  - Intelligent code completion
  - Robust refactoring tools

- **Static Typing**

  - Clear data flow
  - Prevents type-related bugs
  - Self-documenting code

- **Team Collaboration**
  - Clear interfaces and contracts
  - Better code understanding
  - Reduced bugs in large codebases

#### Challenges of Using TypeScript

- **Learning Curve**: Developers familiar with JavaScript may need time to adapt to TypeScript's type system and syntax.
- **Configuration Complexity**: Setting up TypeScript in existing projects can be challenging, especially when dealing with large codebases or integrating with third-party libraries.
- **Type Definitions**: Not all JavaScript libraries have TypeScript type definitions, which can lead to difficulties in using them with TypeScript. However, the DefinitelyTyped repository provides a large collection of type definitions for popular libraries, making it easier to use them in TypeScript projects.
- **Overhead**: TypeScript adds an additional compilation step, which can slow down the development process compared to plain JavaScript. However, modern build tools and IDEs have optimized this process to minimize the impact on development speed.
- **Tooling Support**: While TypeScript has excellent tooling support, some developers may find it challenging to configure their development environment to fully leverage TypeScript's features, especially in complex projects.

## Getting Started

### Installation Options

1. **Project-Based Installation**

   ```bash
   # Using npm
   npm install typescript --save-dev

   # Using yarn
   yarn add typescript --dev
   ```

2. **Global Installation**

   ```bash
   npm install -g typescript
   ```

3. **Using a CDN**
   ```html
   <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/typescript@latest/lib/typescript.js"></script>
   ```
4. **Using a Package Manager**
   ```bash
   # Using npm
   npm install -g typescript
   # Using yarn
   yarn global add typescript
   ```
5. **Using a Build Tool**
   ```bash
   # Using Webpack
   npm install --save-dev ts-loader
   ```
6. **Using a Framework**
   ```bash
   # Using Angular CLI
   ng new my-app --strict
   # Using Create React App
   npx create-react-app my-app --template typescript
   ```

### Project Configuration

Create a `tsconfig.json` file to configure TypeScript:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES6",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "strict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "outDir": "./dist"
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"],
  "exclude": ["node_modules", "**/*.spec.ts"]
}
```

### Migrating from JavaScript

#### Step-by-Step Migration Guide

1. **Setup TypeScript**

   ```bash
   # Install TypeScript
   npm install typescript --save-dev

   # Initialize configuration
   npx tsc --init
   ```

2. **Enable JavaScript Support**

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "allowJs": true,
       "checkJs": false
     }
   }
   ```

3. **Rename Files**

   - Rename `.js` files to `.ts` or `.tsx` (for React components).

   ```bash
   mv src/index.js src/index.ts
   ```

4. **Gradual Migration**

   - Start by adding type annotations to existing JavaScript code.
   - Use `// @ts-check` to enable type checking in JavaScript files.

   ```javascript
   // @ts-check
   function add(a, b) {
     return a + b; // TypeScript will check types here
   }
   ```

5. **Fix Type Errors**

   - Run the TypeScript compiler to identify type errors.
   - Gradually fix errors by adding type annotations and interfaces.

   ```bash
   npx tsc --noEmit
   ```

6. **Use Type Definitions**

   - Install type definitions for third-party libraries using DefinitelyTyped.

   ```bash
   npm install --save-dev @types/lodash
   ```

7. **Refactor Code**

   - Refactor code to use TypeScript features like interfaces, enums, and generics.
   - Replace `any` types with more specific types.

   ```typescript
   interface User {
     id: number;
     name: string;
   }

   function getUser(id: number): User {
     return { id, name: "John Doe" };
   }
   ```

8. **Update Build Scripts**

   - Update your build scripts to compile TypeScript files.

   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "build": "tsc"
     }
   }
   ```

9. **Run TypeScript Compiler**
   ```bash
   npx tsc
   ```
10. **Test Your Application**

    - Run your application to ensure everything works as expected after migration.

    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

##### Best Practices for Migration

1. **Incremental Adoption**

   - Convert files gradually
   - Start with critical modules
   - Use temporary type assertions

2. **Type Safety Levels**

   - Begin with basic types
   - Progress to interfaces
   - Add generics when needed

3. **Common Pitfalls**

   ```typescript
   // ❌ Avoid implicit any
   function process(data) {
     return data.length;
   }

   // ✅ Use explicit types
   function process(data: string[]): number {
     return data.length;
   }
   ```

   **TIP**

   > Use `// @ts-ignore` sparingly to ignore specific TypeScript errors, but prefer fixing the underlying issue.

### TypeScript Tooling

```bash
# Install ESLint with TypeScript support
npm install eslint @typescript-eslint/parser @typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin --save-dev

# Configure TypeScript compiler
npx tsc --init
```

**NOTE**

> TypeScript's rich ecosystem includes the TypeScript Language Server for IDE support, ESLint integration for code quality, and various build tool integrations.

## TypeScript in React

TypeScript is commonly used with React to enhance the development experience by providing type safety for components, props, and state. By using TypeScript with React, developers can catch errors early in the development process and improve code maintainability.

## Example of TypeScript in React

```tsx
import React from "react";
interface GreetingProps {
  name: string;
}
const Greeting: React.FC<GreetingProps> = ({ name }) => {
  return <h1>Hello, {name}!</h1>;
};
export default Greeting;
```

This example shows a simple React component written in TypeScript. The `Greeting` component accepts a `name` prop of type `string`, ensuring that only valid data is passed to the component. This type safety helps prevent runtime errors and improves code clarity.

Take a look at our [React section](/introduction-to-react/overview) for more examples of using TypeScript with React components.

## TypeScript File Structure

```text
src/
├── components/
   └── Greeting.tsx
├── utils/
   └── helpers.ts
└── index.ts
```

This file structure shows how TypeScript files are organized in a typical project. The `components` directory contains TypeScript React components, while the `utils` directory holds utility functions. The `index.ts` file serves as the entry point for the application, allowing for easy imports and exports of modules.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

feat: add prerequisites section to TypeScript overview for better onboarding

src/app/introduction-to-typescript/overview/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

### Table of Contents

## Overview

TypeScript is a statically typed superset of JavaScript that adds optional type annotations and other features to the language. It is designed to help developers write more robust and maintainable code by catching errors at compile time rather than runtime. TypeScript is widely used in modern web development, especially in large-scale applications where type safety and code organization are crucial.

This basically means that TypeScript adds syntax on top of JavaScript, allowing developers to add **types**. This helps catch errors early in the development process, making it easier to maintain and refactor code. TypeScript compiles down to plain JavaScript, which means it can run in any environment that supports JavaScript, including browsers and Node.js.

TypeScript was developed by Microsoft and has gained significant popularity in the developer community due to its ability to improve code quality, enhance developer productivity, and provide better tooling support. It is often used in conjunction with popular frameworks like React, Angular, and Vue.js. TypeScript is an open-source project, and its development is driven by a large community of contributors. It has become the de facto standard for type-safe JavaScript development, offering a powerful alternative to traditional JavaScript coding practices.

#### TypeScript vs JavaScript

| Feature           | TypeScript                             | JavaScript                          |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Static Typing     | Yes, optional static typing            | No, dynamic typing                  |
| Type Inference    | Yes, supports type inference           | No, types are inferred at runtime   |
| Compilation       | Compiles to JavaScript                 | Interpreted at runtime              |
| Tooling Support   | Excellent IDE support, type checking   | Basic tooling support               |
| Learning Curve    | Steeper due to type system             | Easier for beginners                |
| Ecosystem         | Rich ecosystem with type definitions   | Large ecosystem, no types           |
| Community Support | Strong community and Microsoft backing | Large community, widely adopted     |
| Adoption          | Increasingly popular in large projects | Widely used for all web development |

TypeScript enhances JavaScript by introducing static typing, which allows developers to define types for variables, function parameters, and return values. This helps catch type-related errors during development, leading to more reliable and maintainable code. In contrast, JavaScript is dynamically typed, meaning types are determined at runtime, which can lead to unexpected behavior if not carefully managed.

TypeScript also provides features like interfaces, enums, and generics, which help developers create more structured and reusable code. These features are not available in JavaScript, making TypeScript a powerful tool for building large-scale applications.

TypeScript is often used in conjunction with modern JavaScript frameworks and libraries, such as React, Angular, and Vue.js, to enhance the development experience and improve code quality. It allows developers to take advantage of the latest JavaScript features while providing additional type safety and tooling support.

## Key Features of TypeScript

- **Static Typing**: TypeScript allows developers to define types for variables, function parameters, and return values, enabling better type checking and error detection during development.
- **Type Inference**: TypeScript can automatically infer types based on the context, reducing the need for explicit type annotations in many cases.
- **Interfaces and Type Aliases**: TypeScript provides interfaces and type aliases to define custom types, making it easier to create complex data structures and enforce type contracts.
- **Generics**: TypeScript supports generics, allowing developers to create reusable components and functions that can work with different types while maintaining type safety.
- **Advanced Type Features**: TypeScript includes advanced type features such as union types, intersection types, and mapped types, enabling developers to create flexible and powerful type definitions.
- **Decorators**: TypeScript supports decorators, which are a way to add metadata to classes and methods, enabling powerful features like dependency injection and aspect-oriented programming.
- **Namespaces and Modules**: TypeScript provides a module system that allows developers to organize code into reusable modules, promoting better code organization and encapsulation.
- **Tooling Support**: TypeScript has excellent tooling support, including IDE integration, code completion, and refactoring tools, which enhance the developer experience and productivity.
- **Compatibility with JavaScript**: TypeScript is fully compatible with existing JavaScript code, allowing developers to gradually adopt TypeScript in their projects without rewriting everything from scratch.
- **Rich Ecosystem**: TypeScript has a large ecosystem of libraries and frameworks that provide type definitions, making it easier to use popular JavaScript libraries with TypeScript.

#### Benefits of Using TypeScript

- **Improved Code Quality**

```typescript
// JavaScript
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b; // Could lead to unexpected results
}

// TypeScript
function add(a: number, b: number): number {
  return a + b; // Type-safe operation
}
```

- **Enhanced Developer Experience**

  - Better IDE support
  - Intelligent code completion
  - Robust refactoring tools

- **Static Typing**

  - Clear data flow
  - Prevents type-related bugs
  - Self-documenting code

- **Team Collaboration**
  - Clear interfaces and contracts
  - Better code understanding
  - Reduced bugs in large codebases

#### Challenges of Using TypeScript

- **Learning Curve**: Developers familiar with JavaScript may need time to adapt to TypeScript's type system and syntax.
- **Configuration Complexity**: Setting up TypeScript in existing projects can be challenging, especially when dealing with large codebases or integrating with third-party libraries.
- **Type Definitions**: Not all JavaScript libraries have TypeScript type definitions, which can lead to difficulties in using them with TypeScript. However, the DefinitelyTyped repository provides a large collection of type definitions for popular libraries, making it easier to use them in TypeScript projects.
- **Overhead**: TypeScript adds an additional compilation step, which can slow down the development process compared to plain JavaScript. However, modern build tools and IDEs have optimized this process to minimize the impact on development speed.
- **Tooling Support**: While TypeScript has excellent tooling support, some developers may find it challenging to configure their development environment to fully leverage TypeScript's features, especially in complex projects.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you start using TypeScript, ensure you have the following prerequisites:

- **Basic Knowledge of JavaScript** (highly recommended but not required): Familiarity with JavaScript syntax and concepts is essential, as TypeScript builds upon JavaScript.
- **Node.js and npm**: Ensure you have Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) installed on your machine. TypeScript is typically installed via npm, and Node.js provides the runtime environment for running TypeScript code.
- **A Code Editor**: Use a code editor that supports TypeScript, such as Visual Studio Code, which provides excellent TypeScript integration and features like IntelliSense, code navigation, and debugging.
- **Familiarity with Command Line Interface (CLI)**: Basic knowledge of using the command line will help you install TypeScript and run commands effectively.

### Installation Options

1. **Project-Based Installation**

   ```bash
   # Using npm
   npm install typescript --save-dev

   # Using yarn
   yarn add typescript --dev
   ```

2. **Global Installation**

   ```bash
   npm install -g typescript
   ```

3. **Using a CDN**
   ```html
   <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/typescript@latest/lib/typescript.js"></script>
   ```
4. **Using a Package Manager**
   ```bash
   # Using npm
   npm install -g typescript
   # Using yarn
   yarn global add typescript
   ```
5. **Using a Build Tool**
   ```bash
   # Using Webpack
   npm install --save-dev ts-loader
   ```
6. **Using a Framework**
   ```bash
   # Using Angular CLI
   ng new my-app --strict
   # Using Create React App
   npx create-react-app my-app --template typescript
   ```

### Project Configuration

Create a `tsconfig.json` file to configure TypeScript:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES6",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "strict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "outDir": "./dist"
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"],
  "exclude": ["node_modules", "**/*.spec.ts"]
}
```

### Migrating from JavaScript

#### Step-by-Step Migration Guide

1. **Setup TypeScript**

   ```bash
   # Install TypeScript
   npm install typescript --save-dev

   # Initialize configuration
   npx tsc --init
   ```

2. **Enable JavaScript Support**

   ```json
   {
     "compilerOptions": {
       "allowJs": true,
       "checkJs": false
     }
   }
   ```

3. **Rename Files**

   - Rename `.js` files to `.ts` or `.tsx` (for React components).

   ```bash
   mv src/index.js src/index.ts
   ```

4. **Gradual Migration**

   - Start by adding type annotations to existing JavaScript code.
   - Use `// @ts-check` to enable type checking in JavaScript files.

   ```javascript
   // @ts-check
   function add(a, b) {
     return a + b; // TypeScript will check types here
   }
   ```

5. **Fix Type Errors**

   - Run the TypeScript compiler to identify type errors.
   - Gradually fix errors by adding type annotations and interfaces.

   ```bash
   npx tsc --noEmit
   ```

6. **Use Type Definitions**

   - Install type definitions for third-party libraries using DefinitelyTyped.

   ```bash
   npm install --save-dev @types/lodash
   ```

7. **Refactor Code**

   - Refactor code to use TypeScript features like interfaces, enums, and generics.
   - Replace `any` types with more specific types.

   ```typescript
   interface User {
     id: number;
     name: string;
   }

   function getUser(id: number): User {
     return { id, name: "John Doe" };
   }
   ```

8. **Update Build Scripts**

   - Update your build scripts to compile TypeScript files.

   ```json
   {
     "scripts": {
       "build": "tsc"
     }
   }
   ```

9. **Run TypeScript Compiler**
   ```bash
   npx tsc
   ```
10. **Test Your Application**

    - Run your application to ensure everything works as expected after migration.

    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

##### Best Practices for Migration

1. **Incremental Adoption**

   - Convert files gradually
   - Start with critical modules
   - Use temporary type assertions

2. **Type Safety Levels**

   - Begin with basic types
   - Progress to interfaces
   - Add generics when needed

3. **Common Pitfalls**

   ```typescript
   // ❌ Avoid implicit any
   function process(data) {
     return data.length;
   }

   // ✅ Use explicit types
   function process(data: string[]): number {
     return data.length;
   }
   ```

   **TIP**

   > Use `// @ts-ignore` sparingly to ignore specific TypeScript errors, but prefer fixing the underlying issue.

### TypeScript Tooling

```bash
# Install ESLint with TypeScript support
npm install eslint @typescript-eslint/parser @typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin --save-dev

# Configure TypeScript compiler
npx tsc --init
```

**NOTE**

> TypeScript's rich ecosystem includes the TypeScript Language Server for IDE support, ESLint integration for code quality, and various build tool integrations.

## TypeScript in React

TypeScript is commonly used with React to enhance the development experience by providing type safety for components, props, and state. By using TypeScript with React, developers can catch errors early in the development process and improve code maintainability.

## Example of TypeScript in React

```tsx
import React from "react";
interface GreetingProps {
  name: string;
}
const Greeting: React.FC<GreetingProps> = ({ name }) => {
  return <h1>Hello, {name}!</h1>;
};
export default Greeting;
```

This example shows a simple React component written in TypeScript. The `Greeting` component accepts a `name` prop of type `string`, ensuring that only valid data is passed to the component. This type safety helps prevent runtime errors and improves code clarity.

Take a look at our [React section](/introduction-to-react/overview) for more examples of using TypeScript with React components.

## TypeScript File Structure

```text
src/
├── components/
   └── Greeting.tsx
├── utils/
   └── helpers.ts
└── index.ts
```

This file structure shows how TypeScript files are organized in a typical project. The `components` directory contains TypeScript React components, while the `utils` directory holds utility functions. The `index.ts` file serves as the entry point for the application, allowing for easy imports and exports of modules.

<BackToTop />
