src/app/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/development-environment-step-ecommerce/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Development Environment Setup

## Table of Contents

## Development Environment Setup

### Prerequisites

##### Required Software

- **Node.js**: Version 18.0 or higher
- **npm**: Version 9.0 or higher (or yarn/pnpm/bun)
- **Git**: Latest version
- **VS Code**: Recommended IDE with extensions

##### Recommended VS Code Extensions

```json title="Configuration"
// .vscode/extensions.json
{
  "recommendations": [
    "bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss",
    "esbenp.prettier-vscode",
    "dbaeumer.vscode-eslint",
    "ms-vscode.vscode-typescript-next",
    "bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss",
    "formulahendry.auto-rename-tag",
    "christian-kohler.path-intellisense",
    "ms-vscode.vscode-json",
    "github.copilot",
    "ms-playwright.playwright"
  ]
}
```

## Project Structure Deep Dive

### Source Code Organization

```txt title="File Structure"
src/
├── app/                   # Next.js App Router
│   ├── (auth)/            # Route groups for auth pages
│   ├── (dashboard)/       # Protected dashboard routes
│   ├── (public)/          # Public routes
│   ├── api/               # API routes
│   ├── context/           # React Context providers
│   ├── globals.css        # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout
│   ├── providers.tsx      # Application providers
│   ├── loading.tsx        # Loading UI
│   ├── not-found.tsx      # 404 page
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── components/            # Reusable components
│   ├── ui/               # Base UI components
│   ├── forms/            # Form components
│   ├── layout/           # Layout components
│   └── features/         # Feature-specific components
├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
├── lib/                  # Utility libraries
│   ├── utils.ts          # General utilities
│   ├── constants/        # Application constants
│   ├── types/            # TypeScript type definitions
│   ├── interfaces/       # TypeScript interfaces
│   └── api/              # API client functions
└── styles/               # Additional styling
```

## Development Tools

### Useful Scripts

##### Development Scripts

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "dev:turbo": "next dev --turbo",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint",
    "lint:fix": "next lint --fix",
    "type-check": "tsc --noEmit",
    "test": "jest",
    "test:watch": "jest --watch",
    "test:coverage": "jest --coverage",
    "test:e2e": "playwright test",
    "test:e2e:ui": "playwright test --ui",
    "analyze": "ANALYZE=true npm run build",
    "dev:inspect": "NODE_OPTIONS='--inspect' npm run dev",
    "clean": "rm -rf .next node_modules/.cache",
    "reset": "rm -rf .next node_modules package-lock.json && npm install"
  }
}
```

### Debugging

**VS Code Debug Configuration** (`.vscode/launch.json`)

```json title="launch.json"
{
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "name": "Next.js: debug server-side",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "attach",
      "port": 9229,
      "skipFiles": ["<node_internals>/**"]
    },
    {
      "name": "Next.js: debug client-side",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/.bin/next",
      "args": ["dev"],
      "console": "integratedTerminal",
      "skipFiles": ["<node_internals>/**"]
    },
    {
      "name": "Next.js: debug full stack",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/.bin/next",
      "args": ["dev"],
      "console": "integratedTerminal",
      "serverReadyAction": {
        "pattern": "started server on .+, url: (https?://.+)",
        "uriFormat": "%s",
        "action": "debugWithChrome"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Next Steps

Now that you have your development environment set up, let's get started with getting the rest of your application ready.

Head over to [globals.css](/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/globalscss) to continue setting up your application.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

fix: enhance documentation with overviews for development environment, shadcn/ui components, and theme provider

src/app/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/development-environment-step-ecommerce/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Development Environment Setup

## Table of Contents

## Development Environment Setup

Your development environment is crucial for building and maintaining your e-commerce platform. This guide will help you set up a robust development environment using Next.js, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS, along with essential tools and configurations.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following software installed on your machine:

##### Required Software

- **Node.js**: Version 18.0 or higher
- **npm**: Version 9.0 or higher (or yarn/pnpm/bun)
- **Git**: Latest version
- **VS Code**: Recommended IDE with extensions

##### Recommended VS Code Extensions

```json title="Configuration"
// .vscode/extensions.json
{
  "recommendations": [
    "bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss",
    "esbenp.prettier-vscode",
    "dbaeumer.vscode-eslint",
    "ms-vscode.vscode-typescript-next",
    "bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss",
    "formulahendry.auto-rename-tag",
    "christian-kohler.path-intellisense",
    "ms-vscode.vscode-json",
    "github.copilot",
    "ms-playwright.playwright"
  ]
}
```

## Project Structure Deep Dive

This section provides an overview of the project structure, highlighting key directories and files that are essential for your development workflow.

### Source Code Organization

```txt title="File Structure"
src/
├── app/                   # Next.js App Router
│   ├── (auth)/            # Route groups for auth pages
│   ├── (dashboard)/       # Protected dashboard routes
│   ├── (public)/          # Public routes
│   ├── api/               # API routes
│   ├── context/           # React Context providers
│   ├── globals.css        # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx         # Root layout
│   ├── providers.tsx      # Application providers
│   ├── loading.tsx        # Loading UI
│   ├── not-found.tsx      # 404 page
│   └── page.tsx           # Home page
├── components/            # Reusable components
│   ├── ui/               # Base UI components
│   ├── forms/            # Form components
│   ├── layout/           # Layout components
│   └── features/         # Feature-specific components
├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
├── lib/                  # Utility libraries
│   ├── utils.ts          # General utilities
│   ├── constants/        # Application constants
│   ├── types/            # TypeScript type definitions
│   ├── interfaces/       # TypeScript interfaces
│   └── api/              # API client functions
└── styles/               # Additional styling
```

## Development Tools

### Recommended Tools

- **Prettier**: Code formatter
- **ESLint**: Linting tool for JavaScript and TypeScript
- **TypeScript**: Static type checker for JavaScript
- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework
- **Playwright**: End-to-end testing framework

### Useful Scripts

These scripts help automate common development tasks, such as starting the development server, building the application, running tests, and more.

##### Development Scripts

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev",
    "dev:turbo": "next dev --turbo",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint",
    "lint:fix": "next lint --fix",
    "type-check": "tsc --noEmit",
    "test": "jest",
    "test:watch": "jest --watch",
    "test:coverage": "jest --coverage",
    "test:e2e": "playwright test",
    "test:e2e:ui": "playwright test --ui",
    "analyze": "ANALYZE=true npm run build",
    "dev:inspect": "NODE_OPTIONS='--inspect' npm run dev",
    "clean": "rm -rf .next node_modules/.cache",
    "reset": "rm -rf .next node_modules package-lock.json && npm install"
  }
}
```

### Debugging

#### VS Code Debug Configuration

You can set up debugging configurations in VS Code to streamline your development process. Below is a sample configuration for debugging Next.js applications.

```json title=".vscode/launch.json"
{
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "name": "Next.js: debug server-side",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "attach",
      "port": 9229,
      "skipFiles": ["<node_internals>/**"]
    },
    {
      "name": "Next.js: debug client-side",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/.bin/next",
      "args": ["dev"],
      "console": "integratedTerminal",
      "skipFiles": ["<node_internals>/**"]
    },
    {
      "name": "Next.js: debug full stack",
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/.bin/next",
      "args": ["dev"],
      "console": "integratedTerminal",
      "serverReadyAction": {
        "pattern": "started server on .+, url: (https?://.+)",
        "uriFormat": "%s",
        "action": "debugWithChrome"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Next Steps

Now that you have your development environment set up, let's get started with getting the rest of your application ready.

Head over to [globals.css](/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/globalscss) to continue setting up your application.

<BackToTop />
