src/app/blog-website/overview/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

## Table of Contents

## Overview

Blog websites are a great way to share your thoughts, ideas, and expertise with the world. This guide provides an overview of how to build a blog website using modern web technologies, focusing on best practices for structure, design, and functionality.

This blog website will serve as a comprehensive guide to building a fully functional blog platform, covering everything from setting up the project to implementing advanced features. It will be designed to be user-friendly, visually appealing, and easy to maintain.

This blog website will be built using Next.js, a powerful React framework, and will incorporate various features such as theming, navigation, and content management.

### Goals

- Provide a clear and structured approach to building a blog website.
- Demonstrate best practices for web development.
- Showcase the use of modern web technologies and libraries.
- Create a visually appealing and user-friendly interface.
- Ensure the website is responsive and accessible.
- Implement features that enhance user engagement and content management.
- Provide a solid foundation for future enhancements and scalability.

### Prerequisites

- Basic understanding of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- Familiarity with React and Next.js concepts.
- Knowledge basic of Markdown for content creation.
- Understanding of web development best practices.

### Features

- **Responsive Design**: The website will be fully responsive, ensuring a great user experience on all devices.
- **Theming**: Users can switch between light and dark themes.
- **Content Management**: Easy management of blog posts using Markdown files.
- **Navigation**: Intuitive navigation with a sidebar and top navigation bar.
- **Search Functionality**: Users can search for blog posts by keywords.
- **Pagination**: Efficient navigation through blog posts with pagination.

### Technologies Used

- **Next.js**: Framework for building React applications with server-side rendering.
  - **next-themes**: A library for managing themes in Next.js applications.
- **TypeScript**: Superset of JavaScript that adds static types.
  - **TSX**: TypeScript with JSX syntax for React components.

#### UI Libraries

- **shadcn/ui**: A collection of accessible and customizable UI components for React applications.
- **@headlessui/react**: Provides unstyled, accessible UI components for React.

#### Icon Libraries

- **@heroicons/react**: A set of free MIT-licensed high-quality SVG icons for React.
- **react-icons**: A library for using popular icon sets in React applications.
- **lucide-react**: A collection of open-source SVG icons for React applications.

#### Carousel Libraries

- **react-slick**: A React wrapper for the Slick carousel library, providing a responsive and customizable carousel experience.
- **react-slick-carousel**: A React component for creating carousels with slick features.
- **react-multi-carousel**: A responsive carousel component for React that supports multiple items per slide.
- **react-responsive-carousel**: A responsive carousel component for React with touch support and various customization options.

#### Styling

- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework for styling.

### Development Tools

- **clsx**: A utility for constructing `className` strings conditionally.
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime for server-side logic.
- **npm**: Package manager for JavaScript, used to manage project dependencies.
- **ESLint**: A tool for identifying and fixing problems in JavaScript code.
- **Prettier**: A code formatter for maintaining consistent code style.
- **Vercel**: Platform for deploying Next.js applications.

## How to Use This Guide

This guide will walk you through the process of building a portfolio website using Next.js and TypeScript. Each section will cover a specific aspect of the project, from setting up the development environment to deploying the final product.

You can follow the sections in order, or skip to specific parts that interest you. The guide is structured to provide a comprehensive understanding of building a portfolio website, with practical examples and code snippets.

In each section, you will find:

- Explanations of concepts and technologies used.
- Step-by-step instructions for implementing features.
- Tips and best practices for building a portfolio website.

For each example, you will find code snippets that you can copy and paste into your project. Feel free to modify the code to suit your needs and preferences.

There will be a variety of styles and approaches to building a portfolio website, including different layouts, color schemes, and component designs. Each example will showcase different aspects of Next.js and TypeScript, as well as various libraries and tools that can enhance your portfolio website.

Feel free to choose the style that resonates with you the most, or mix and match elements from each example to create your unique portfolio website.

Underneath many blocks of code, you will find "Customization Options" that provide suggestions for modifying the code to suit your preferences. These options are meant to inspire you to personalize your portfolio website and make it your own.

## Getting Started

### Setting Up the Project

Use `npx create-next-app@latest` to set up a new Next.js project.

- Choose TypeScript when prompted to use TypeScript.
- Navigate to your project directory.

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest
```

<br />
You will see the following prompts:

- What is your project named?
  - Enter your desired project name (e.g., `my-portfolio`).
- Would you like to use TypeScript?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable TypeScript support.
- Would you like to use ESLint?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable ESLint for code quality.
- Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable Tailwind CSS for styling.
- Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory?
  - Choose `Yes` to organize your code in a `src` directory.
- Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)
  - Choose `Yes` to use the App Router for routing.
- Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`?
  - Choose `No` for now, as it is still experimental.
- Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)?
  - Choose `No` for the default alias.

```bash
$ npx create-next-app@latest
✔ What is your project named? … my-portfolio
✔ Would you like to use TypeScript? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use ESLint? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)? … No / Yes
Creating a new Next.js app in {file path}.

Using npm.

Initializing project with template: app-tw

Installing dependencies:
- react
- react-dom
- next

Installing devDependencies:
- typescript
- @types/node
- @types/react
- @types/react-dom
- @tailwindcss/postcss
- tailwindcss
- eslint
- eslint-config-next
- @eslint/eslintrc

added 405 packages, and audited 406 packages in 20s

165 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

found 0 vulnerabilities
Initialized a git repository.

Success! Created my-portfolio at {file path}
```

<BackToTop />
### Install Dependencies

To install the necessary dependencies for your Next.js project, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm install @headlessui/react @heroicons/react lucide-react react-icons react-slick react-slick-carousel react-multi-carousel react-responsive-carousel next-themes clsx tailwind-merge
```

### Install `shadcn/ui`

To install the `shadcn/ui` library, which provides a set of accessible and customizable UI components for React, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest init
```

This command will set up the `shadcn/ui` library in your Next.js project, allowing you to use its components in your portfolio website.

It will create a `components.json` file in your project directory, which contains the configuration for the `shadcn/ui` components.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://ui.shadcn.com/schema.json",
  "aliases": {
    "components": "@/components",
    "hooks": "@/hooks",
    "lib": "@/lib",
    "ui": "@/components/ui",
    "utils": "@/lib/utils"
  },
  "iconLibrary": "lucide",
  "rsc": true,
  "style": "new-york",
  "tailwind": {
    "baseColor": "neutral",
    "config": "",
    "css": "src/app/globals.css",
    "cssVariables": true,
    "prefix": ""
  },
  "tsx": true
}
```

It will also create your `lib/` directory, which contains utility functions and hooks for your project. For right now, it will contain a `utils.ts` file with some utility functions that you can use in your project.

The file will look like this:

```typescript
// src/lib/utils.ts
import { clsx, type ClassValue } from "clsx";
import { twMerge } from "tailwind-merge";

export function cn(...inputs: ClassValue[]) {
  return twMerge(clsx(inputs));
}
```

This utility function `cn` is used to merge class names together, which is useful for styling components with Tailwind CSS.

For example, you can use it to conditionally apply classes to your components based on certain conditions.

```typescript
import { cn } from "@/lib/utils";
const Button = ({ primary, className }) => {
  return (
    <button className={cn("btn", primary && "btn-primary", className)}>
      Click Me
    </button>
  );
};
```

The last thing this command does is update your `globals.css` file to include the necessary styles for the `shadcn/ui` components.

<BackToTop />

### Project Structure

```plaintext
my-blog-website/
├── README.md
├── next.config.ts
├── package.json
├── tailwind.config.ts
├── postcss.config.mjs
├── tsconfig.json
├── eslint.config.mjs
├── components.json
├── mdx-components.tsx
├── next-env.d.ts
│
├── public/
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── next.svg
│   └── vercel.svg
│
├── content/                        # Blog content (MDX files)
│   └── posts/
│
└── src/
    ├── app/
    │   ├── globals.css
    │   ├── layout.tsx
    │   ├── page.mdx
    │   │
    │   └── blog/
    │       ├── page.tsx
    │       └── [slug]/
    │           └── page.tsx
    │
    ├── components/
    │   ├── ui/                     # shadcn/ui components (initially empty)
    │   │
    │   ├── blog/                   # Blog-specific components
    │   │   ├── PostCard.tsx
    │   │   └── PostContent.tsx
    │   │
    │   └── layout/                 # Layout components
    │       ├── Header.tsx
    │       ├── Footer.tsx
    │       └── Navigation.tsx
    │
    ├── lib/                        # Utility functions
    │   ├── utils.ts                # Utility functions (cn, etc.)
    │   └── mdx.ts                  # Basic MDX processing
    │
    └── types/                      # TypeScript type definitions
        └── blog.ts                 # Basic blog post types
```

This structure provides a solid foundation for your blog website, with the following key directories:

- **Root Level**: Essential configuration files that Next.js creates plus shadcn/ui setup
- **Content**: A basic content folder with one sample blog post
- **App Router**: Minimal routing structure for homepage and blog functionality
- **Components**: Basic component organization with essential UI elements
- **Lib**: Core utilities needed to get started
- **Types**: Basic TypeScript definitions

From this starting point, you can gradually add more features like:

- Search functionality
- Author pages
- Categories and tags
- Additional UI components
- Custom hooks
- More complex content organization

### Running the Development Server

To start the development server and see your blog website in action, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start the Next.js development server, and you can view your blog website in your web browser at `http://localhost:3000`.

<BackToTop />

## Next Steps

Now that you have a basic structure for your blog website, you can start building out the features and functionality.

Let's get started with the [`layout.tsx` file](/blog-website/getting-set-up/layout), which will define the global layout for your blog website.

Commit message:

feat: Update documentation to include additional Tailwind CSS utilities and Markdown plugins

src/app/blog-website/overview/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

## Table of Contents

## Overview

Blog websites are a great way to share your thoughts, ideas, and expertise with the world. This guide provides an overview of how to build a blog website using modern web technologies, focusing on best practices for structure, design, and functionality.

This blog website will serve as a comprehensive guide to building a fully functional blog platform, covering everything from setting up the project to implementing advanced features. It will be designed to be user-friendly, visually appealing, and easy to maintain.

This blog website will be built using Next.js, a powerful React framework, and will incorporate various features such as theming, navigation, and content management.

### Goals

- Provide a clear and structured approach to building a blog website.
- Demonstrate best practices for web development.
- Showcase the use of modern web technologies and libraries.
- Create a visually appealing and user-friendly interface.
- Ensure the website is responsive and accessible.
- Implement features that enhance user engagement and content management.
- Provide a solid foundation for future enhancements and scalability.

### Prerequisites

- Basic understanding of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- Familiarity with React and Next.js concepts.
- Knowledge basic of Markdown for content creation.
- Understanding of web development best practices.

### Features

- **Responsive Design**: The website will be fully responsive, ensuring a great user experience on all devices.
- **Theming**: Users can switch between light and dark themes.
- **Content Management**: Easy management of blog posts using Markdown files.
- **Navigation**: Intuitive navigation with a sidebar and top navigation bar.
- **Search Functionality**: Users can search for blog posts by keywords.
- **Pagination**: Efficient navigation through blog posts with pagination.

### Technologies Used

- **Next.js**: Framework for building React applications with server-side rendering.
  - **next-themes**: A library for managing themes in Next.js applications.
- **TypeScript**: Superset of JavaScript that adds static types.
  - **TSX**: TypeScript with JSX syntax for React components.

#### UI Libraries

- **shadcn/ui**: A collection of accessible and customizable UI components for React applications.
- **@headlessui/react**: Provides unstyled, accessible UI components for React.

#### Icon Libraries

- **@heroicons/react**: A set of free MIT-licensed high-quality SVG icons for React.
- **react-icons**: A library for using popular icon sets in React applications.
- **lucide-react**: A collection of open-source SVG icons for React applications.

#### Carousel Libraries

- **react-slick**: A React wrapper for the Slick carousel library, providing a responsive and customizable carousel experience.
- **react-slick-carousel**: A React component for creating carousels with slick features.
- **react-multi-carousel**: A responsive carousel component for React that supports multiple items per slide.
- **react-responsive-carousel**: A responsive carousel component for React with touch support and various customization options.

#### Styling

- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework for styling.
- **tailwind-merge**: A utility for merging Tailwind CSS class names, ensuring that styles are applied correctly without conflicts.
- **tailwindcss Typography**: A plugin for Tailwind CSS that provides a set of pre-designed typography styles.

### Formatting and Linting
- **Prettier**: A code formatter for maintaining consistent code style.
- **remark-frontmatter**: A plugin for parsing frontmatter in Markdown files, allowing you to define metadata for your blog posts.
- **remark-gfm**: A plugin for supporting GitHub Flavored Markdown (GFM) syntax in your Markdown files.
- **rehype-slug**: A plugin for adding slugs to headings in your Markdown files, enabling anchor links.
- **rehype-autolink-headings**: A plugin for automatically adding anchor links to headings in your Markdown files.
- **remark-toc**: A plugin for generating a table of contents from the headings in your Markdown files.

### Development Tools

- **clsx**: A utility for constructing `className` strings conditionally.
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime for server-side logic.
- **npm**: Package manager for JavaScript, used to manage project dependencies.
- **ESLint**: A tool for identifying and fixing problems in JavaScript code.

- **Vercel**: Platform for deploying Next.js applications.

## How to Use This Guide

This guide will walk you through the process of building a portfolio website using Next.js and TypeScript. Each section will cover a specific aspect of the project, from setting up the development environment to deploying the final product.

You can follow the sections in order, or skip to specific parts that interest you. The guide is structured to provide a comprehensive understanding of building a portfolio website, with practical examples and code snippets.

In each section, you will find:

- Explanations of concepts and technologies used.
- Step-by-step instructions for implementing features.
- Tips and best practices for building a portfolio website.

For each example, you will find code snippets that you can copy and paste into your project. Feel free to modify the code to suit your needs and preferences.

There will be a variety of styles and approaches to building a portfolio website, including different layouts, color schemes, and component designs. Each example will showcase different aspects of Next.js and TypeScript, as well as various libraries and tools that can enhance your portfolio website.

Feel free to choose the style that resonates with you the most, or mix and match elements from each example to create your unique portfolio website.

Underneath many blocks of code, you will find "Customization Options" that provide suggestions for modifying the code to suit your preferences. These options are meant to inspire you to personalize your portfolio website and make it your own.

## Getting Started

### Setting Up the Project

Use `npx create-next-app@latest` to set up a new Next.js project.

- Choose TypeScript when prompted to use TypeScript.
- Navigate to your project directory.

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest
```

<br />
You will see the following prompts:

- What is your project named?
  - Enter your desired project name (e.g., `my-portfolio`).
- Would you like to use TypeScript?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable TypeScript support.
- Would you like to use ESLint?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable ESLint for code quality.
- Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable Tailwind CSS for styling.
- Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory?
  - Choose `Yes` to organize your code in a `src` directory.
- Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)
  - Choose `Yes` to use the App Router for routing.
- Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`?
  - Choose `No` for now, as it is still experimental.
- Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)?
  - Choose `No` for the default alias.

```bash
$ npx create-next-app@latest
✔ What is your project named? … my-portfolio
✔ Would you like to use TypeScript? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use ESLint? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)? … No / Yes
Creating a new Next.js app in {file path}.

Using npm.

Initializing project with template: app-tw

Installing dependencies:
- react
- react-dom
- next

Installing devDependencies:
- typescript
- @types/node
- @types/react
- @types/react-dom
- @tailwindcss/postcss
- tailwindcss
- eslint
- eslint-config-next
- @eslint/eslintrc

added 405 packages, and audited 406 packages in 20s

165 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

found 0 vulnerabilities
Initialized a git repository.

Success! Created my-portfolio at {file path}
```

<BackToTop />
### Install Dependencies

To install the necessary dependencies for your Next.js project, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm install @headlessui/react @heroicons/react lucide-react react-icons react-slick react-slick-carousel react-multi-carousel react-responsive-carousel next-themes clsx tailwind-merge remark-toc remark-gfm remark-frontmatter rehype-autolink-headings rehype-slug @tailwindcss/typography
```

### Install `shadcn/ui`

To install the `shadcn/ui` library, which provides a set of accessible and customizable UI components for React, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest init
```

This command will set up the `shadcn/ui` library in your Next.js project, allowing you to use its components in your portfolio website.

It will create a `components.json` file in your project directory, which contains the configuration for the `shadcn/ui` components.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://ui.shadcn.com/schema.json",
  "aliases": {
    "components": "@/components",
    "hooks": "@/hooks",
    "lib": "@/lib",
    "ui": "@/components/ui",
    "utils": "@/lib/utils"
  },
  "iconLibrary": "lucide",
  "rsc": true,
  "style": "new-york",
  "tailwind": {
    "baseColor": "neutral",
    "config": "",
    "css": "src/app/globals.css",
    "cssVariables": true,
    "prefix": ""
  },
  "tsx": true
}
```

It will also create your `lib/` directory, which contains utility functions and hooks for your project. For right now, it will contain a `utils.ts` file with some utility functions that you can use in your project.

The file will look like this:

```typescript
// src/lib/utils.ts
import { clsx, type ClassValue } from "clsx";
import { twMerge } from "tailwind-merge";

export function cn(...inputs: ClassValue[]) {
  return twMerge(clsx(inputs));
}
```

This utility function `cn` is used to merge class names together, which is useful for styling components with Tailwind CSS.

For example, you can use it to conditionally apply classes to your components based on certain conditions.

```typescript
import { cn } from "@/lib/utils";
const Button = ({ primary, className }) => {
  return (
    <button className={cn("btn", primary && "btn-primary", className)}>
      Click Me
    </button>
  );
};
```

The last thing this command does is update your `globals.css` file to include the necessary styles for the `shadcn/ui` components.

<BackToTop />

### Project Structure

```plaintext
my-blog-website/
├── README.md
├── next.config.ts
├── package.json
├── tailwind.config.ts
├── postcss.config.mjs
├── tsconfig.json
├── eslint.config.mjs
├── components.json
├── mdx-components.tsx
├── next-env.d.ts
│
├── public/
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── next.svg
│   └── vercel.svg
│
├── content/                        # Blog content (MDX files)
│   └── posts/
│
└── src/
    ├── app/
    │   ├── globals.css
    │   ├── layout.tsx
    │   ├── page.mdx
    │   │
    │   └── blog/
    │       ├── page.tsx
    │       └── [slug]/
    │           └── page.tsx
    │
    ├── components/
    │   ├── ui/                     # shadcn/ui components (initially empty)
    │   │
    │   ├── blog/                   # Blog-specific components
    │   │   ├── PostCard.tsx
    │   │   └── PostContent.tsx
    │   │
    │   └── layout/                 # Layout components
    │       ├── Header.tsx
    │       ├── Footer.tsx
    │       └── Navigation.tsx
    │
    ├── lib/                        # Utility functions
    │   ├── utils.ts                # Utility functions (cn, etc.)
    │   └── mdx.ts                  # Basic MDX processing
    │
    └── types/                      # TypeScript type definitions
        └── blog.ts                 # Basic blog post types
```

This structure provides a solid foundation for your blog website, with the following key directories:

- **Root Level**: Essential configuration files that Next.js creates plus shadcn/ui setup
- **Content**: A basic content folder with one sample blog post
- **App Router**: Minimal routing structure for homepage and blog functionality
- **Components**: Basic component organization with essential UI elements
- **Lib**: Core utilities needed to get started
- **Types**: Basic TypeScript definitions

From this starting point, you can gradually add more features like:

- Search functionality
- Author pages
- Categories and tags
- Additional UI components
- Custom hooks
- More complex content organization

### Running the Development Server

To start the development server and see your blog website in action, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start the Next.js development server, and you can view your blog website in your web browser at `http://localhost:3000`.

<BackToTop />

## Next Steps

Now that you have a basic structure for your blog website, you can start building out the features and functionality.

Let's get started with the [`layout.tsx` file](/blog-website/getting-set-up/layout), which will define the global layout for your blog website.
