src/app/introduction-to-react/overview/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

## Overview

## Table of Contents

## React v19.1

React is a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It allows developers to create reusable UI components and manage the state of applications efficiently. React's component-based architecture promotes modularity and reusability, making it easier to build complex user interfaces.

This means that React allows developers to break down the UI into smaller, manageable pieces called components. Each component can have its own state and props, making it easy to manage the data flow in an application. React also provides a virtual DOM, which optimizes rendering performance by minimizing direct manipulation of the actual DOM.

Many developers use React to build single-page applications (SPAs) and mobile applications due to its flexibility and performance. React can be used with various state management libraries, routing libraries, and other tools to create robust applications.

React was developed by Facebook and has a large community of contributors. It is widely adopted in the industry and has become one of the most popular libraries for building user interfaces. React v19.1 is the latest version of React, which includes several new features and improvements to enhance the development experience and performance of React applications. React v19.1 introduced several new features and improvements, including:

- Enhanced server components with better streaming support
- Improved performance optimizations for client components
- New hooks for better state management
- Enhanced TypeScript support
- New features for concurrent rendering
- Improved accessibility features
- New features for React Router
- Improved support for React Context API

...and more!

## Key Features of React

- **Component-Based Architecture**: React allows developers to create reusable UI components, promoting modularity and reusability.
- **Virtual DOM**: React uses a virtual DOM to optimize rendering performance, minimizing direct manipulation of the actual DOM.
- **State Management**: React provides a way to manage the state of components efficiently, allowing for dynamic and interactive user interfaces.
- **Props and State**: React components can receive data through props and manage their own state, enabling a unidirectional data flow.
- **Hooks**: React introduced hooks in version 16.8, allowing developers to use state and lifecycle methods in functional components, making it easier to manage component logic.
- **Context API**: React provides a way to share data between components without passing props explicitly, making it easier to manage global state.
- **Concurrent Mode**: React's concurrent mode allows for smoother rendering and better user experience by enabling React to work on multiple tasks simultaneously.
- **Server-Side Rendering (SSR)**: React supports server-side rendering, allowing developers to render components on the server and send the HTML to the client, improving performance and SEO.
- **React Router**: React Router is a popular library for handling routing in React applications, enabling developers to create single-page applications with multiple views and navigation.
- **TypeScript Support**: React has excellent TypeScript support, allowing developers to use static typing for better type safety and code quality.
- **Developer Tools**: React provides a set of developer tools for debugging and profiling React applications, making it easier to identify performance bottlenecks and issues in the code.
- **Community and Ecosystem**: React has a large and active community, with a rich ecosystem of libraries, tools, and resources available for developers to enhance their React applications.

#### Benefits of Using React

- **Reusable Components**: React's component-based architecture allows developers to create reusable UI components, reducing code duplication and improving maintainability.
- **Efficient Rendering**: The virtual DOM optimizes rendering performance, making React applications fast and responsive.
- **Declarative Syntax**: React's declarative syntax makes it easier to understand and reason about the UI, as developers can describe what the UI should look like based on the current state.
- **Strong Community Support**: React has a large and active community, providing a wealth of resources, libraries, and tools to enhance development.
- **Cross-Platform Development**: React can be used for web, mobile (React Native), and desktop applications, allowing developers to share code across different platforms.
- **SEO-Friendly**: With server-side rendering and static site generation capabilities, React applications can be optimized for search engines, improving visibility and performance.
- **TypeScript Compatibility**: React has excellent TypeScript support, enabling developers to use static typing for better type safety and code quality.
- **Rich Ecosystem**: React has a rich ecosystem of libraries and tools, such as React Router for routing, Redux for state management, and many others, making it easier to build complex applications.
- **Performance Optimization**: React's concurrent mode and other performance optimizations allow developers to create smooth and responsive user interfaces, even in complex applications.
- **Easy Integration**: React can be easily integrated with other libraries and frameworks, allowing developers to leverage existing code and tools in their applications.

**NOTE**

<blockquote>

There is a [TypeScript](/introduction-to-typescript/overview) page that provides an overview of TypeScript, its features, and benefits. It is recommended to read that page to understand how TypeScript enhances the development experience in React applications.

There is also an [Introduction to TypeScript](https://react.dev/learn/introduction-to-typescript) section in the React documentation that provides a comprehensive overview of TypeScript and its integration with React. It covers topics such as type annotations, interfaces, generics, and more, helping developers understand how to use TypeScript effectively in their React applications.

</blockquote>

#### Challenges When Using React

- **Learning Curve**: React has a steep learning curve, especially for developers new to component-based architecture and concepts like hooks and state management.
- **State Management Complexity**: Managing state in larger applications can become complex, requiring additional libraries like Redux or MobX for effective state management.
- **Performance Optimization**: While React's virtual DOM optimizes rendering, developers still need to be mindful of performance issues, such as unnecessary re-renders and memory leaks.
- **Tooling and Ecosystem**: The React ecosystem is vast, and choosing the right tools and libraries can be overwhelming for new developers. It requires careful consideration of the project's requirements and the available options.
- **Integration with Legacy Code**: Integrating React into existing projects or legacy codebases can be challenging, especially if the existing code is not structured in a way that aligns with React's component-based architecture.
- **Server-Side Rendering (SSR)**: Implementing server-side rendering with React can be complex, requiring additional setup and configuration to ensure proper hydration and performance.
- **Testing**: Testing React components can be challenging, especially when dealing with complex state management and asynchronous operations. Developers need to use appropriate testing libraries and frameworks to ensure comprehensive test coverage.

## Getting Started with React

### Prerequisites

Before getting started with React, make sure you have the following prerequisites:

- **Node.js**: React requires Node.js to run. You can download and install it from the [official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/).
- **npm**: npm (Node Package Manager) is included with Node.js and is used to manage dependencies in React projects. You can check if npm is installed by running `npm -v` in your terminal.
- **Basic Knowledge of JavaScript**: Familiarity with JavaScript, especially ES6 features like arrow functions, destructuring, and modules, will help you understand React concepts more easily.
- **Familiarity with HTML and CSS**: Understanding HTML and CSS is essential for building user interfaces in React, as you will be using JSX (JavaScript XML) to define the structure and styles of your components.
- **Text Editor or IDE**: You will need a text editor or integrated development environment (IDE) to write and edit your React code. Popular choices include Visual Studio Code, Atom, and Sublime Text.
- **Basic Understanding of Git**: Familiarity with Git and version control concepts will help you manage your React projects effectively, especially when collaborating with others.
- **Optional**: Familiarity with TypeScript can be beneficial, as React has excellent TypeScript support, allowing you to use static typing for better type safety and code quality.

### Installation

To get started with React, you can use the Create React App tool, which sets up a new React project with a modern build configuration. You can install it globally using npm:

```bash
npm install -g create-react-app
```

Then, you can create a new React project by running:

```bash
npx create-react-app my-app
```

This will create a new directory called `my-app` with all the necessary files and dependencies to start building your React application.

#### Basic Example

```javascript
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";
import "./index.css";
import App from "./App";
import reportWebVitals from "./reportWebVitals";
ReactDOM.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>,
  document.getElementById("root")
);
reportWebVitals();
```

This is a basic example of a React application. It imports the necessary modules, including React and ReactDOM, and renders the `App` component into the root element of the HTML document. The `reportWebVitals` function is used to measure performance metrics in the application.

React uses JSX (JavaScript XML) syntax, which allows developers to write HTML-like code within JavaScript. This makes it easier to visualize the structure of the UI and manage components.

### Project Structure

The basic structure of a React project created with Create React App looks like this:

```my-app/
├── node_modules/
├── public/
    ├── index.html
    ├── favicon.ico
    └── manifest.json
├── src/
    ├── App.css
    ├── App.js
    ├── App.test.js
    ├── index.css
    ├── index.js
    ├── logo.svg
    └── reportWebVitals.js
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── README.md
```

This structure includes the `node_modules` directory for dependencies, the `public` directory for static assets, and the `src` directory for the main application code. The `package.json` file contains the project metadata and dependencies, while the `README.md` file provides information about the project.

#### Key Files

| File                 | Description                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `index.js`           | The entry point of the React application, where the root component is rendered.                                                                                         |
| `App.js`             | The main application component that serves as the root of the component tree.                                                                                           |
| `index.html`         | The main HTML file that serves as the template for the React application. It includes a root element where the React components are rendered.                           |
| `reportWebVitals.js` | A utility file for measuring performance metrics in the application. It can be used to log performance data or send it to an analytics endpoint.                        |
| `App.css`            | The CSS file for styling the `App` component. It can be used to define styles for the main application component.                                                       |
| `index.css`          | The global CSS file for the application. It can be used to define styles that apply to the entire application.                                                          |
| `logo.svg`           | An SVG file that can be used as a logo or icon in the application. It is often used in the `App` component to display a logo.                                           |
| `App.test.js`        | A test file for the `App` component. It can be used to write unit tests for the main application component using testing libraries like Jest and React Testing Library. |

#### folders

| Folder              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `node_modules/`     | Contains all the dependencies installed for the project. It is automatically created when you run `npm install` and should not be modified directly.                                                                                                              |
| `public/`           | Contains static assets that are served directly by the web server. This includes the `index.html` file, which is the main HTML template for the React application, as well as other static files like images and icons.                                           |
| `src/`              | Contains the main application code, including React components, styles, and utility functions. This is where you will write most of your application logic.                                                                                                       |
| `package.json`      | Contains metadata about the project, including the project name, version, dependencies, scripts, and other configuration options. It is used by npm to manage the project dependencies and scripts.                                                               |
| `package-lock.json` | Automatically generated file that locks the versions of the dependencies installed in the project. It ensures that the same versions of dependencies are used across different environments, providing consistency in the project setup.                          |
| `README.md`         | A markdown file that provides information about the project, including how to set it up, run it, and any other relevant details. It is a good practice to document your project in this file to help other developers understand how to use and contribute to it. |

### Project Configuration

The project configuration is managed through the `package.json` file, which includes scripts for building, testing, and running the application. Here are some common scripts you might find in a React project:
| Script | Description |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `npm start` | Starts the development server and opens the application in the default web browser. This is typically used during development to see changes in real-time. |
| `npm run build` | Builds the application for production, creating an optimized version of the app in the `build` directory. This is used when deploying the application to a web server or hosting service. |
| `npm test` | Runs the test suite for the application. This is used to ensure that the application behaves as expected and to catch any bugs or issues early in the development process. |
| `npm run eject` | Ejects the configuration from Create React App, allowing you to customize the build setup. This is an advanced option and should be used with caution, as it makes the project configuration more complex and harder to maintain. |

Some other common scripts you might find in a React project include:
| Script | Description |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `npm run lint` | Runs a linter to check the code for style and formatting issues. This helps maintain code quality and consistency across the project. |
| `npm run format` | Formats the code using a code formatter like Prettier. This ensures that the code is consistently styled and adheres to the project's coding standards. |
| `npm run analyze` | Analyzes the bundle size of the application, helping you identify potential performance issues and optimize the application for better performance. This is useful for understanding the size of the JavaScript bundles and identifying large dependencies that may impact the application's loading time. |

## Running the Application

To run the React application, navigate to the project directory in your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
npm start
```

This will start the development server and open the application in your default web browser. The application will automatically reload whenever you make changes to the source code.

## Building for Production

To build the React application for production, you can run the following command:

```bash
npm run build
```

This will create a `build` directory containing the optimized production build of the application. You can then deploy the contents of the `build` directory to a web server or hosting service.

Commit message:

feat: add link to Introduction to JSX for better understanding of JSX syntax

src/app/introduction-to-react/overview/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

## Overview

## Table of Contents

## React v19.1

React is a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It allows developers to create reusable UI components and manage the state of applications efficiently. React's component-based architecture promotes modularity and reusability, making it easier to build complex user interfaces.

This means that React allows developers to break down the UI into smaller, manageable pieces called components. Each component can have its own state and props, making it easy to manage the data flow in an application. React also provides a virtual DOM, which optimizes rendering performance by minimizing direct manipulation of the actual DOM.

Many developers use React to build single-page applications (SPAs) and mobile applications due to its flexibility and performance. React can be used with various state management libraries, routing libraries, and other tools to create robust applications.

React was developed by Facebook and has a large community of contributors. It is widely adopted in the industry and has become one of the most popular libraries for building user interfaces. React v19.1 is the latest version of React, which includes several new features and improvements to enhance the development experience and performance of React applications. React v19.1 introduced several new features and improvements, including:

- Enhanced server components with better streaming support
- Improved performance optimizations for client components
- New hooks for better state management
- Enhanced TypeScript support
- New features for concurrent rendering
- Improved accessibility features
- New features for React Router
- Improved support for React Context API

...and more!

## Key Features of React

- **Component-Based Architecture**: React allows developers to create reusable UI components, promoting modularity and reusability.
- **Virtual DOM**: React uses a virtual DOM to optimize rendering performance, minimizing direct manipulation of the actual DOM.
- **State Management**: React provides a way to manage the state of components efficiently, allowing for dynamic and interactive user interfaces.
- **Props and State**: React components can receive data through props and manage their own state, enabling a unidirectional data flow.
- **Hooks**: React introduced hooks in version 16.8, allowing developers to use state and lifecycle methods in functional components, making it easier to manage component logic.
- **Context API**: React provides a way to share data between components without passing props explicitly, making it easier to manage global state.
- **Concurrent Mode**: React's concurrent mode allows for smoother rendering and better user experience by enabling React to work on multiple tasks simultaneously.
- **Server-Side Rendering (SSR)**: React supports server-side rendering, allowing developers to render components on the server and send the HTML to the client, improving performance and SEO.
- **React Router**: React Router is a popular library for handling routing in React applications, enabling developers to create single-page applications with multiple views and navigation.
- **TypeScript Support**: React has excellent TypeScript support, allowing developers to use static typing for better type safety and code quality.
- **Developer Tools**: React provides a set of developer tools for debugging and profiling React applications, making it easier to identify performance bottlenecks and issues in the code.
- **Community and Ecosystem**: React has a large and active community, with a rich ecosystem of libraries, tools, and resources available for developers to enhance their React applications.

#### Benefits of Using React

- **Reusable Components**: React's component-based architecture allows developers to create reusable UI components, reducing code duplication and improving maintainability.
- **Efficient Rendering**: The virtual DOM optimizes rendering performance, making React applications fast and responsive.
- **Declarative Syntax**: React's declarative syntax makes it easier to understand and reason about the UI, as developers can describe what the UI should look like based on the current state.
- **Strong Community Support**: React has a large and active community, providing a wealth of resources, libraries, and tools to enhance development.
- **Cross-Platform Development**: React can be used for web, mobile (React Native), and desktop applications, allowing developers to share code across different platforms.
- **SEO-Friendly**: With server-side rendering and static site generation capabilities, React applications can be optimized for search engines, improving visibility and performance.
- **TypeScript Compatibility**: React has excellent TypeScript support, enabling developers to use static typing for better type safety and code quality.
- **Rich Ecosystem**: React has a rich ecosystem of libraries and tools, such as React Router for routing, Redux for state management, and many others, making it easier to build complex applications.
- **Performance Optimization**: React's concurrent mode and other performance optimizations allow developers to create smooth and responsive user interfaces, even in complex applications.
- **Easy Integration**: React can be easily integrated with other libraries and frameworks, allowing developers to leverage existing code and tools in their applications.

**NOTE**

<blockquote>

There is a [TypeScript](/introduction-to-typescript/overview) page that provides an overview of TypeScript, its features, and benefits. It is recommended to read that page to understand how TypeScript enhances the development experience in React applications.

There is also an [Introduction to TypeScript](https://react.dev/learn/introduction-to-typescript) section in the React documentation that provides a comprehensive overview of TypeScript and its integration with React. It covers topics such as type annotations, interfaces, generics, and more, helping developers understand how to use TypeScript effectively in their React applications.

</blockquote>

#### Challenges When Using React

- **Learning Curve**: React has a steep learning curve, especially for developers new to component-based architecture and concepts like hooks and state management.
- **State Management Complexity**: Managing state in larger applications can become complex, requiring additional libraries like Redux or MobX for effective state management.
- **Performance Optimization**: While React's virtual DOM optimizes rendering, developers still need to be mindful of performance issues, such as unnecessary re-renders and memory leaks.
- **Tooling and Ecosystem**: The React ecosystem is vast, and choosing the right tools and libraries can be overwhelming for new developers. It requires careful consideration of the project's requirements and the available options.
- **Integration with Legacy Code**: Integrating React into existing projects or legacy codebases can be challenging, especially if the existing code is not structured in a way that aligns with React's component-based architecture.
- **Server-Side Rendering (SSR)**: Implementing server-side rendering with React can be complex, requiring additional setup and configuration to ensure proper hydration and performance.
- **Testing**: Testing React components can be challenging, especially when dealing with complex state management and asynchronous operations. Developers need to use appropriate testing libraries and frameworks to ensure comprehensive test coverage.

## Getting Started with React

### Prerequisites

Before getting started with React, make sure you have the following prerequisites:

- **Node.js**: React requires Node.js to run. You can download and install it from the [official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/).
- **npm**: npm (Node Package Manager) is included with Node.js and is used to manage dependencies in React projects. You can check if npm is installed by running `npm -v` in your terminal.
- **Basic Knowledge of JavaScript**: Familiarity with JavaScript, especially ES6 features like arrow functions, destructuring, and modules, will help you understand React concepts more easily.
- **Familiarity with HTML and CSS**: Understanding HTML and CSS is essential for building user interfaces in React, as you will be using JSX (JavaScript XML) to define the structure and styles of your components.
- **Text Editor or IDE**: You will need a text editor or integrated development environment (IDE) to write and edit your React code. Popular choices include Visual Studio Code, Atom, and Sublime Text.
- **Basic Understanding of Git**: Familiarity with Git and version control concepts will help you manage your React projects effectively, especially when collaborating with others.
- **Optional**: Familiarity with TypeScript can be beneficial, as React has excellent TypeScript support, allowing you to use static typing for better type safety and code quality.

### Installation

To get started with React, you can use the Create React App tool, which sets up a new React project with a modern build configuration. You can install it globally using npm:

```bash
npm install -g create-react-app
```

Then, you can create a new React project by running:

```bash
npx create-react-app my-app
```

This will create a new directory called `my-app` with all the necessary files and dependencies to start building your React application.

#### Basic Example

```javascript
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";
import "./index.css";
import App from "./App";
import reportWebVitals from "./reportWebVitals";
ReactDOM.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>,
  document.getElementById("root")
);
reportWebVitals();
```

This is a basic example of a React application. It imports the necessary modules, including React and ReactDOM, and renders the `App` component into the root element of the HTML document. The `reportWebVitals` function is used to measure performance metrics in the application.

React uses JSX (JavaScript XML) syntax, which allows developers to write HTML-like code within JavaScript. This makes it easier to visualize the structure of the UI and manage components. More about JSX can be found in the [Introduction to JSX](/introduction-to-react/introduction-to-jsx) section.

### Project Structure

The basic structure of a React project created with Create React App looks like this:

```my-app/
├── node_modules/
├── public/
    ├── index.html
    ├── favicon.ico
    └── manifest.json
├── src/
    ├── App.css
    ├── App.js
    ├── App.test.js
    ├── index.css
    ├── index.js
    ├── logo.svg
    └── reportWebVitals.js
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
└── README.md
```

This structure includes the `node_modules` directory for dependencies, the `public` directory for static assets, and the `src` directory for the main application code. The `package.json` file contains the project metadata and dependencies, while the `README.md` file provides information about the project.

#### Key Files

| File                 | Description                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `index.js`           | The entry point of the React application, where the root component is rendered.                                                                                         |
| `App.js`             | The main application component that serves as the root of the component tree.                                                                                           |
| `index.html`         | The main HTML file that serves as the template for the React application. It includes a root element where the React components are rendered.                           |
| `reportWebVitals.js` | A utility file for measuring performance metrics in the application. It can be used to log performance data or send it to an analytics endpoint.                        |
| `App.css`            | The CSS file for styling the `App` component. It can be used to define styles for the main application component.                                                       |
| `index.css`          | The global CSS file for the application. It can be used to define styles that apply to the entire application.                                                          |
| `logo.svg`           | An SVG file that can be used as a logo or icon in the application. It is often used in the `App` component to display a logo.                                           |
| `App.test.js`        | A test file for the `App` component. It can be used to write unit tests for the main application component using testing libraries like Jest and React Testing Library. |

#### folders

| Folder              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `node_modules/`     | Contains all the dependencies installed for the project. It is automatically created when you run `npm install` and should not be modified directly.                                                                                                              |
| `public/`           | Contains static assets that are served directly by the web server. This includes the `index.html` file, which is the main HTML template for the React application, as well as other static files like images and icons.                                           |
| `src/`              | Contains the main application code, including React components, styles, and utility functions. This is where you will write most of your application logic.                                                                                                       |
| `package.json`      | Contains metadata about the project, including the project name, version, dependencies, scripts, and other configuration options. It is used by npm to manage the project dependencies and scripts.                                                               |
| `package-lock.json` | Automatically generated file that locks the versions of the dependencies installed in the project. It ensures that the same versions of dependencies are used across different environments, providing consistency in the project setup.                          |
| `README.md`         | A markdown file that provides information about the project, including how to set it up, run it, and any other relevant details. It is a good practice to document your project in this file to help other developers understand how to use and contribute to it. |

### Project Configuration

The project configuration is managed through the `package.json` file, which includes scripts for building, testing, and running the application. Here are some common scripts you might find in a React project:
| Script | Description |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `npm start` | Starts the development server and opens the application in the default web browser. This is typically used during development to see changes in real-time. |
| `npm run build` | Builds the application for production, creating an optimized version of the app in the `build` directory. This is used when deploying the application to a web server or hosting service. |
| `npm test` | Runs the test suite for the application. This is used to ensure that the application behaves as expected and to catch any bugs or issues early in the development process. |
| `npm run eject` | Ejects the configuration from Create React App, allowing you to customize the build setup. This is an advanced option and should be used with caution, as it makes the project configuration more complex and harder to maintain. |

Some other common scripts you might find in a React project include:
| Script | Description |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `npm run lint` | Runs a linter to check the code for style and formatting issues. This helps maintain code quality and consistency across the project. |
| `npm run format` | Formats the code using a code formatter like Prettier. This ensures that the code is consistently styled and adheres to the project's coding standards. |
| `npm run analyze` | Analyzes the bundle size of the application, helping you identify potential performance issues and optimize the application for better performance. This is useful for understanding the size of the JavaScript bundles and identifying large dependencies that may impact the application's loading time. |

## Running the Application

To run the React application, navigate to the project directory in your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
npm start
```

This will start the development server and open the application in your default web browser. The application will automatically reload whenever you make changes to the source code.

## Building for Production

To build the React application for production, you can run the following command:

```bash
npm run build
```

This will create a `build` directory containing the optimized production build of the application. You can then deploy the contents of the `build` directory to a web server or hosting service.
