src/app/introduction-to-APIs/API-tools/swagger-ui/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";
import Button from "@/components/Button";
import { FaChevronRight } from "react-icons/fa";

# Swagger UI

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

[Swagger UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) is an open-source tool that provides a user-friendly interface for visualizing and interacting with RESTful APIs. It allows developers to explore API endpoints, view request and response formats, and test API functionality directly from a web browser. Swagger UI is part of the larger Swagger ecosystem, which includes tools for API design, documentation, and testing.
Swagger UI is built on top of the OpenAPI Specification (formerly known as Swagger Specification), which is a standard format for describing RESTful APIs. By using Swagger UI, developers can generate interactive API documentation that makes it easy to understand how an API works, what endpoints are available, and how to use them effectively.

### Key Features

| Feature                            | Description                                                                                          |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Interactive API documentation**  | Automatically generates interactive documentation from OpenAPI specifications.                       |
| **Request/response visualization** | Displays request and response formats, including headers and body content.                           |
| **API testing**                    | Allows users to test API endpoints directly from the documentation interface.                        |
| **Support for multiple protocols** | Works with REST, SOAP, GraphQL, and WebSocket APIs.                                                  |
| **Customizable themes**            | Supports custom themes and styles to match branding requirements.                                    |
| **Code generation**                | Generates client SDKs in various programming languages based on the API definition.                  |
| **Security definitions**           | Supports various authentication methods, including API keys, OAuth 2.0, and Basic Auth.              |
| **Versioning support**             | Allows versioning of API definitions to manage changes over time.                                    |
| **Extensible plugins**             | Supports plugins for additional functionality, such as custom authentication or request validation.  |
| **OpenAPI Specification support**  | Fully compatible with OpenAPI Specification 2.0 and 3.0, enabling easy integration with other tools. |
| **Cross-platform compatibility**   | Can be hosted on any web server or integrated into existing applications.                            |

<BackToTop />

## Getting Started

Downloading and setting up Swagger UI is straightforward. You can either use the hosted version or download the source code to run it locally or on your own server.

### Pricing

| Plan           | Price (per user/month) |
| -------------- | ---------------------- |
| **Free**       | $0                     |
| **SwaggerHub** | $36                    |
| **Team**       | $75                    |
| **Enterprise** | Custom                 |

#### Prerequisites

- A web server (e.g., Apache, Nginx, or a local development server)
- Basic knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
- An OpenAPI specification file (in JSON or YAML format) that describes your API

To use Swagger UI, you need to have an OpenAPI specification file (in JSON or YAML format) that describes your API endpoints, request/response formats, and authentication methods. You can either create this file manually or use tools like Swagger Editor to generate it.

- Download the Swagger UI distribution from the [Swagger UI GitHub repository](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui)
- Extract the contents of the downloaded ZIP file to a directory on your web server
- Place your OpenAPI specification file (e.g., `swagger.json` or `swagger.yaml`) in the same directory
- Open the `index.html` file in a web browser
- Modify the `url` parameter in the `index.html` file to point to your OpenAPI specification file

```html
<script>
  const ui = SwaggerUIBundle({
    url: "swagger.json", // Path to your OpenAPI specification file
    dom_id: "#swagger-ui",
    deepLinking: true,
    presets: [SwaggerUIBundle.presets.apis, SwaggerUIStandalonePreset],
    layout: "StandaloneLayout",
  });
  window.ui = ui;
</script>
```

#### More Than Just Swagger UI

Swagger also has SwaggerHub, which is a cloud-based API design and documentation platform that provides additional features such as collaboration, versioning, and hosting. SwaggerHub integrates with Swagger UI to provide a complete API development lifecycle solution. You can get SwaggerHub for Teams and there is SwaggerHub Enterprise.

##### Features of SwaggerHub

| Feature                           | Description                                                                                               |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Collaboration**                 | Allows teams to collaborate on API design and documentation in real-time.                                 |
| **Versioning**                    | Supports versioning of API definitions to manage changes and maintain backward compatibility.             |
| **Hosting**                       | Provides hosting for API documentation, making it accessible to developers and consumers.                 |
| **Integration**                   | Integrates with popular tools like GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket for version control and CI/CD workflows. |
| **Custom Domains**                | Allows you to use custom domains for your API documentation.                                              |
| **Security**                      | Supports various authentication methods, including API keys, OAuth 2.0, and Basic Auth.                   |
| **Analytics**                     | Provides analytics and usage statistics for your APIs, helping you understand how they are used.          |
| **Code Generation**               | Generates client SDKs in various programming languages based on the API definition.                       |
| **OpenAPI Specification Support** | Fully compatible with OpenAPI Specification 2.0 and 3.0, enabling easy integration with other tools.      |

##### Pricing for SwaggerHub

| Plan           | Price (per user/month) |
| -------------- | ---------------------- |
| **Free**       | $0                     |
| **SwaggerHub** | $36                    |

<BackToTop />

## Using Swagger UI

### Exploring API Endpoints

Once Swagger UI is set up, you can start exploring your API endpoints:

- Open the Swagger UI in your web browser
- You will see a list of available API endpoints organized by tags
- Click on an endpoint to expand its details, including the HTTP method, request parameters, and response formats
- You can view the request and response examples, including headers and body content

### Testing API Endpoints

Swagger UI allows you to test API endpoints directly from the documentation interface:

- Click on the <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Try it out</Button> button for the desired endpoint
- Enter any required parameters in the input fields provided
- Click on the <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Execute</Button> button to send the request
- Swagger UI will display the response status code, headers, and body content in the response section
- You can also view the curl command for the request, which can be useful for testing in a terminal or command line

```bash
# Example curl command generated by Swagger UI
curl -X GET "https://api.example.com/users" -H "accept: application/json" -H "Authorization= Bearer YOUR_API_KEY"
```

### Customizing Swagger UI

Swagger UI provides several options for customization to match your branding and design requirements:

- You can modify the `index.html` file to change the title, description, and other metadata
- You can customize the CSS styles by modifying the `swagger-ui.css` file or adding your own styles
- You can add custom JavaScript to extend the functionality of Swagger UI or integrate it with other tools

### Integrating Swagger UI with Your Application

Swagger UI can be easily integrated into your existing web applications or documentation sites:

- You can embed Swagger UI as an iframe in your application by pointing the `src` attribute to the URL of your Swagger UI instance

```html
<iframe
  src="https://yourdomain.com/swagger-ui/index.html"
  width="100%"
  height="600px"
></iframe>
```

- You can also use Swagger UI as a standalone application by hosting it on a separate subdomain or path
- If you're using a framework like React, Angular, or Vue.js, you can integrate Swagger UI as a component or module in your application

## Best Practices for Using Swagger UI

- **Keep your OpenAPI specification up to date**: Regularly update your OpenAPI specification file to reflect changes in your API endpoints, request/response formats, and authentication methods.
- **Use meaningful tags and descriptions**: Organize your API endpoints using meaningful tags and provide clear descriptions for each endpoint to make it easier for developers to understand the API functionality.
- **Test your API endpoints**: Use Swagger UI to test your API endpoints regularly to ensure they are functioning as expected. This helps catch issues early and ensures a smooth developer experience.
- **Document authentication methods**: Clearly document the authentication methods required for your API endpoints, including API keys, OAuth 2.0, or Basic Auth. This helps developers understand how to authenticate their requests.
- **Provide examples**: Include request and response examples in your OpenAPI specification to help developers understand the expected formats and data structures. This can significantly reduce the learning curve for new users of your API.
- **Use versioning**: If you make significant changes to your API, consider versioning your OpenAPI specification to maintain backward compatibility. This allows developers to continue using older versions of the API while transitioning to the new version.
- **Leverage SwaggerHub for collaboration**: If you're working in a team, consider using SwaggerHub to collaborate on API design and documentation. It provides features like versioning, hosting, and integration with version control systems, making it easier to manage API changes collaboratively.
- **Monitor API usage**: If you're using SwaggerHub, take advantage of its analytics features to monitor API usage and gather insights into how developers are interacting with your API. This can help you identify areas for improvement and optimize the developer experience.
- **Stay informed about updates**: Keep an eye on updates to Swagger UI and the OpenAPI Specification. New features and improvements are regularly released, so staying informed can help you take advantage of the latest capabilities and best practices.
  <BackToTop />

Commit message:

feat: update Swagger UI documentation to clarify API support and remove pricing details

src/app/introduction-to-APIs/API-tools/swagger-ui/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";
import Button from "@/components/Button";
import { FaChevronRight } from "react-icons/fa";

# Swagger UI

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

[Swagger UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) is an open-source tool that provides a user-friendly interface for visualizing and interacting with RESTful APIs. It allows developers to explore API endpoints, view request and response formats, and test API functionality directly from a web browser. Swagger UI is part of the larger Swagger ecosystem, which includes tools for API design, documentation, and testing.
Swagger UI is built on top of the OpenAPI Specification (formerly known as Swagger Specification), which is a standard format for describing RESTful APIs. By using Swagger UI, developers can generate interactive API documentation that makes it easy to understand how an API works, what endpoints are available, and how to use them effectively.

### Key Features

| Feature                            | Description                                                                                          |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Interactive API documentation**  | Automatically generates interactive documentation from OpenAPI specifications.                       |
| **Request/response visualization** | Displays request and response formats, including headers and body content.                           |
| **API testing**                    | Allows users to test API endpoints directly from the documentation interface.                        |
| **Support for REST APIs**          | Designed specifically for REST APIs that follow the OpenAPI Specification.                           |
| **Customizable themes**            | Supports custom themes and styles to match branding requirements.                                    |
| **Code generation**                | Generates client SDKs in various programming languages based on the API definition.                  |
| **Security definitions**           | Supports various authentication methods, including API keys, OAuth 2.0, and Basic Auth.              |
| **Versioning support**             | Allows versioning of API definitions to manage changes over time.                                    |
| **Extensible plugins**             | Supports plugins for additional functionality, such as custom authentication or request validation.  |
| **OpenAPI Specification support**  | Fully compatible with OpenAPI Specification 2.0 and 3.0, enabling easy integration with other tools. |
| **Cross-platform compatibility**   | Can be hosted on any web server or integrated into existing applications.                            |

<BackToTop />

## Getting Started

Downloading and setting up Swagger UI is straightforward. You can either use the hosted version or download the source code to run it locally or on your own server.

### Pricing

| Plan           | Price (per user/month) |
| -------------- | ---------------------- |
| **Free**       | $0                     |
| **SwaggerHub** | $36                    |
| **Enterprise** | Custom                 |

#### Prerequisites

- A web server (e.g., Apache, Nginx, or a local development server)
- Basic knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
- An OpenAPI specification file (in JSON or YAML format) that describes your API

To use Swagger UI, you need to have an OpenAPI specification file (in JSON or YAML format) that describes your API endpoints, request/response formats, and authentication methods. You can either create this file manually or use tools like Swagger Editor to generate it.

- Download the Swagger UI distribution from the [Swagger UI GitHub repository](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui)
- Extract the contents of the downloaded ZIP file to a directory on your web server
- Place your OpenAPI specification file (e.g., `swagger.json` or `swagger.yaml`) in the same directory
- Open the `index.html` file in a web browser
- Modify the `url` parameter in the `index.html` file to point to your OpenAPI specification file

```html
<script>
  const ui = SwaggerUIBundle({
    url: "swagger.json", // Path to your OpenAPI specification file
    dom_id: "#swagger-ui",
    deepLinking: true,
    presets: [SwaggerUIBundle.presets.apis, SwaggerUIStandalonePreset],
    layout: "StandaloneLayout",
  });
  window.ui = ui;
</script>
```

#### More Than Just Swagger UI

Swagger also has SwaggerHub, which is a cloud-based API design and documentation platform that provides additional features such as collaboration, versioning, and hosting. SwaggerHub integrates with Swagger UI to provide a complete API development lifecycle solution.

##### Features of SwaggerHub

| Feature                           | Description                                                                                               |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Collaboration**                 | Allows teams to collaborate on API design and documentation in real-time.                                 |
| **Versioning**                    | Supports versioning of API definitions to manage changes and maintain backward compatibility.             |
| **Hosting**                       | Provides hosting for API documentation, making it accessible to developers and consumers.                 |
| **Integration**                   | Integrates with popular tools like GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket for version control and CI/CD workflows. |
| **Custom Domains**                | Allows you to use custom domains for your API documentation.                                              |
| **Security**                      | Supports various authentication methods, including API keys, OAuth 2.0, and Basic Auth.                   |
| **Analytics**                     | Provides analytics and usage statistics for your APIs, helping you understand how they are used.          |
| **Code Generation**               | Generates client SDKs in various programming languages based on the API definition.                       |
| **OpenAPI Specification Support** | Fully compatible with OpenAPI Specification 2.0 and 3.0, enabling easy integration with other tools.      |

<BackToTop />

## Using Swagger UI

### Exploring API Endpoints

Once Swagger UI is set up, you can start exploring your API endpoints:

- Open the Swagger UI in your web browser
- You will see a list of available API endpoints organized by tags
- Click on an endpoint to expand its details, including the HTTP method, request parameters, and response formats
- You can view the request and response examples, including headers and body content

### Testing API Endpoints

Swagger UI allows you to test API endpoints directly from the documentation interface:

- Click on the <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Try it out</Button> button for the desired endpoint
- Enter any required parameters in the input fields provided
- Click on the <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Execute</Button> button to send the request
- Swagger UI will display the response status code, headers, and body content in the response section
- You can also view the curl command for the request, which can be useful for testing in a terminal or command line

```bash
# Example curl command generated by Swagger UI
curl -X GET "https://api.example.com/users" -H "accept: application/json" -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY"
```

### Customizing Swagger UI

Swagger UI provides several options for customization to match your branding and design requirements:

- You can modify the `index.html` file to change the title, description, and other metadata
- You can customize the CSS styles by modifying the `swagger-ui.css` file or adding your own styles
- You can add custom JavaScript to extend the functionality of Swagger UI or integrate it with other tools

### Integrating Swagger UI with Your Application

Swagger UI can be easily integrated into your existing web applications or documentation sites:

- You can embed Swagger UI as an iframe in your application by pointing the `src` attribute to the URL of your Swagger UI instance

```html
<iframe
  src="https://yourdomain.com/swagger-ui/index.html"
  width="100%"
  height="600px"
></iframe>
```

- You can also use Swagger UI as a standalone application by hosting it on a separate subdomain or path
- If you're using a framework like React, Angular, or Vue.js, you can integrate Swagger UI as a component or module in your application

## Best Practices for Using Swagger UI

- **Keep your OpenAPI specification up to date**: Regularly update your OpenAPI specification file to reflect changes in your API endpoints, request/response formats, and authentication methods.
- **Use meaningful tags and descriptions**: Organize your API endpoints using meaningful tags and provide clear descriptions for each endpoint to make it easier for developers to understand the API functionality.
- **Test your API endpoints**: Use Swagger UI to test your API endpoints regularly to ensure they are functioning as expected. This helps catch issues early and ensures a smooth developer experience.
- **Document authentication methods**: Clearly document the authentication methods required for your API endpoints, including API keys, OAuth 2.0, or Basic Auth. This helps developers understand how to authenticate their requests.
- **Provide examples**: Include request and response examples in your OpenAPI specification to help developers understand the expected formats and data structures. This can significantly reduce the learning curve for new users of your API.
- **Use versioning**: If you make significant changes to your API, consider versioning your OpenAPI specification to maintain backward compatibility. This allows developers to continue using older versions of the API while transitioning to the new version.
- **Leverage SwaggerHub for collaboration**: If you're working in a team, consider using SwaggerHub to collaborate on API design and documentation. It provides features like versioning, hosting, and integration with version control systems, making it easier to manage API changes collaboratively.
- **Monitor API usage**: If you're using SwaggerHub, take advantage of its analytics features to monitor API usage and gather insights into how developers are interacting with your API. This can help you identify areas for improvement and optimize the developer experience.
- **Stay informed about updates**: Keep an eye on updates to Swagger UI and the OpenAPI Specification. New features and improvements are regularly released, so staying informed can help you take advantage of the latest capabilities and best practices.
  <BackToTop />
