src/app/ecommerce-platform/connecting-to-the-API/cart/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Cart API Integration

## Table of Contents

## Carts API Functionality

- **GET /carts** - Fetch all carts
- **GET /carts/{`id`}** - Fetch single cart
- **POST /carts/add** - Add new cart
- **PUT /carts/{`id`}** - Update cart
- **DELETE /carts/{`id`}** - Delete cart

Handles shopping cart operations:

- **fetchUserCart(userId)** - Get user's cart
- **addToCart(productId, quantity)** - Add product to cart
- **updateCartItem(itemId, quantity)** - Update cart item
- **removeFromCart(itemId)** - Remove item from cart

### Data Flow

> User Action → Cart Context → Local Storage ↔ Carts API → DummyJSON

## The `import` Statements

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts
import { UserCartsResponse, Cart, CartProduct } from "@/lib/interfaces/cart";
import { API_BASE_URL } from ".";
```

## `fetchUserCarts` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Fetches the shopping carts associated with the current user.
 *
 * This asynchronous function retrieves the user's cart data from the API.
 * It can be used to display the user's current cart contents or manage cart operations.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<any>} A promise that resolves to the user's cart data.
 * @throws {Error} If the API request fails or returns an error.
 */
export async function fetchUserCarts(
  userId: number
): Promise<UserCartsResponse> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/users/${userId}/carts`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch user carts: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const data: UserCartsResponse = await response.json();
    return data;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching user carts:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates several important concepts in API integration:

###### Function Parameters & TypeScript Types:

- The function accepts a `userId` parameter of type `number`, ensuring type safety
- The return type `Promise<UserCartsResponse>` explicitly defines what the function will return asynchronously

###### API Endpoint Construction:

- Uses template literals to dynamically build the URL: `${API_BASE_URL}/users/${userId}/carts`
- This follows RESTful API conventions where user-specific resources are nested under the user endpoint

###### Error Handling Strategy:

- The `try-catch` block provides comprehensive error handling
- Checks `response.ok` to verify the HTTP request was successful (status 200-299)
- Throws descriptive errors that include the HTTP status text for debugging
- Logs errors to the console for development debugging while still throwing them up the call stack

###### Asynchronous Programming:

- Uses `async/await` syntax for cleaner, more readable asynchronous code
- The `fetch()` function returns a Promise, which is handled with `await`
- Type assertion with `UserCartsResponse` ensures the JSON response matches our expected interface structure

<BackToTop />

## `fetchCartById` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Fetches the cart details for a given cart ID.
 *
 * @param cartId - The unique identifier of the cart to retrieve.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to the Cart object corresponding to the provided cart ID.
 */
export async function fetchCartById(cartId: number): Promise<Cart> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/carts/${cartId}`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch cart: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const cart: Cart = await response.json();
    return cart;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching cart:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function showcases fundamental concepts in single-resource API fetching:

###### Resource Identification:

- Uses a unique `cartId` parameter to identify a specific cart resource
- Follows RESTful conventions where each resource has a unique identifier in the URL path

###### HTTP GET Request Pattern:

- Demonstrates the standard pattern for fetching a single resource by ID
- The endpoint structure `/carts/${cartId}` clearly indicates we're requesting one specific cart

###### Response Type Handling:

- Returns a `Promise<Cart>` indicating this function deals with a single cart object
- The `Cart` interface ensures the response data structure matches our application's expectations

###### Error Management:

- Implements the same robust error handling pattern as other API functions
- Provides specific error messages that help identify whether the issue is with the request or the response
- The error logging helps developers debug issues during development while maintaining clean error propagation

<BackToTop />

## `fetchAllCarts` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Fetches all shopping carts from the API.
 *
 * This asynchronous function retrieves a list of all carts available in the system.
 * It can be used to display or manage user carts in the ecommerce platform.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<Array>} A promise that resolves to an array of cart objects.
 * @throws {Error} Throws an error if the fetch operation fails.
 */
export async function fetchAllCarts(
  limit: number = 20,
  skip: number = 0
): Promise<{
  carts: Cart[];
  total: number;
  skip: number;
  limit: number;
}> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(
      `${API_BASE_URL}/carts?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
    );

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch carts: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const data = await response.json();
    return data;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching all carts:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function introduces advanced concepts for handling large datasets and pagination:

###### Default Parameters in TypeScript:

- Uses default parameter values (`limit: number = 20, skip: number = 0`) to provide sensible defaults
- This makes the function flexible - it can be called with no parameters, one parameter, or both parameters

###### Query Parameters for Pagination:

- Constructs URL query parameters using template literals: `?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
- This implements pagination, which is crucial for performance when dealing with large datasets
- `limit` controls how many records to return, while `skip` determines how many to bypass (for page navigation)

###### Complex Return Type:

- The return type is an object with multiple properties: `{ carts: Cart[]; total: number; skip: number; limit: number }`
- This pattern provides not just the data, but also metadata about the pagination state
- The `total` field helps calculate how many pages exist, while `skip` and `limit` help track current position

###### Administrative Use Case:

- This function is designed for admin dashboards or system overviews where you need to see all carts
- The pagination makes it suitable for displaying large amounts of data without performance issues

<BackToTop />

## `getPreviouslyPurchased` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Retrieves a list of items that the user has previously purchased.
 * This asynchronous function typically interacts with the backend API
 * to fetch purchase history or previously bought products for the current user.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<Array>} A promise that resolves to an array of previously purchased items.
 */
export async function getPreviouslyPurchased(
  userId: number
): Promise<CartProduct[]> {
  try {
    const userCarts = await fetchUserCarts(userId);

    // Flatten all products from all carts
    const allProducts: CartProduct[] = userCarts.carts.flatMap(
      (cart) => cart.products
    );

    // Remove duplicates based on product ID and aggregate quantities
    const uniqueProducts: { [key: number]: CartProduct } = {};

    // @collapse
    allProducts.forEach((product) => {
      if (uniqueProducts[product.id]) {
        // If product already exists, add to quantity and total
        uniqueProducts[product.id].quantity += product.quantity;
        uniqueProducts[product.id].total += product.total;
        uniqueProducts[product.id].discountedTotal += product.discountedTotal;
      } else {
        // First time seeing this product
        uniqueProducts[product.id] = { ...product };
      }
    });

    return Object.values(uniqueProducts);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error getting previously purchased products:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates advanced data processing techniques and functional programming concepts:

###### Function Composition:

- Calls `fetchUserCarts()` first to get raw cart data, then processes it
- This shows how to build complex operations by combining simpler functions

###### Array Method Chaining:

- Uses `flatMap()` to flatten nested arrays: `userCarts.carts.flatMap(cart => cart.products)`
- `flatMap()` is more efficient than using `map()` followed by `flat()` - it combines both operations

###### Data Aggregation with Object as Hash Map:

- Creates an object `uniqueProducts` to track products by their ID as keys
- This is a common pattern for deduplicating and aggregating data efficiently (O(1) lookup time)

###### Conditional Logic for Aggregation:

- Uses an if-else structure to either add a new product or update an existing one
- When a product already exists, it aggregates the quantities and totals across multiple purchases
- The spread operator `{ ...product }` creates a copy to avoid mutating the original data

###### Object Methods for Final Processing:

- `Object.values()` converts the hash map back to an array
- This pattern (array → object → array) is common for deduplication and aggregation tasks

###### Business Logic Implementation:

- Solves the real-world problem of showing "previously purchased" items without duplicates
- Aggregates purchase quantities and totals, giving users meaningful purchase history data

## `getOrderHistory` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Retrieves the order history for a specific user.
 *
 * @param userId - The unique identifier of the user whose order history is to be fetched.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to an array of Cart objects representing the user's order history.
 */
export async function getOrderHistory(userId: number): Promise<Cart[]> {
  try {
    const userCarts = await fetchUserCarts(userId);

    // Sort by cart ID (descending) to show most recent orders first
    const sortedCarts = userCarts.carts.sort((a, b) => b.id - a.id);

    return sortedCarts;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error getting order history:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function focuses on data sorting and user experience optimization:

###### Data Reuse Pattern:

- Leverages the existing `fetchUserCarts()` function rather than duplicating API logic
- This demonstrates the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle in software development

###### Array Sorting for User Experience:

- Uses the `sort()` method with a comparison function: `(a, b) => b.id - a.id`
- The comparison `b.id - a.id` creates descending order (newest first)
- Sorting by ID assumes that higher IDs represent more recent orders (common in databases with auto-incrementing IDs)

###### Immutable Data Handling:

- `sort()` mutates the original array, but since we're working with data from an API response, this is acceptable
- In more complex scenarios, you might use `[...userCarts.carts].sort()` to avoid mutation

###### Business Logic for Order History:

- Prioritizes recent orders first, which is what users typically expect to see
- Returns the complete cart objects, giving access to all order details (products, totals, dates, etc.)
- This provides a foundation for building order history displays in the user interface
  <BackToTop />

## `getUserPurchaseStats` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Retrieves purchase statistics for a specific user.
 *
 * @param userId - The unique identifier of the user whose purchase statistics are to be fetched.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to an object containing the user's purchase statistics.
 */
export async function getUserPurchaseStats(userId: number): Promise<{
  totalOrders: number;
  totalSpent: number;
  totalItems: number;
  totalSavings: number;
}> {
  try {
    const userCarts = await fetchUserCarts(userId);

    // @collapse
    const stats = userCarts.carts.reduce(
      (acc, cart) => {
        acc.totalOrders += 1;
        acc.totalSpent += cart.discountedTotal;
        acc.totalItems += cart.totalProducts;
        acc.totalSavings += cart.total - cart.discountedTotal;
        return acc;
      },
      {
        totalOrders: 0,
        totalSpent: 0,
        totalItems: 0,
        totalSavings: 0,
      }
    );

    return stats;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error getting user purchase stats:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates the powerful `reduce()` method for statistical calculations:

###### Array.reduce() for Aggregation:

- Uses `reduce()` to iterate through all carts and accumulate statistics
- The accumulator (`acc`) starts with initial values of 0 for all statistics
- Each iteration adds the current cart's values to the running totals

###### Accumulator Pattern:

- `acc.totalOrders += 1` - counts each cart as one order
- `acc.totalSpent += cart.discountedTotal` - sums up the actual amounts paid (after discounts)
- `acc.totalItems += cart.totalProducts` - aggregates the total number of items across all orders
- `acc.totalSavings += cart.total - cart.discountedTotal` - calculates savings by subtracting discounted price from original price

###### Initial Value Object:

- The second parameter to `reduce()` provides the starting accumulator value
- Uses an object with all statistics initialized to 0
- This ensures the function works correctly even if the user has no carts

###### Business Intelligence:

- Creates meaningful metrics that can be displayed in user dashboards
- Helps users understand their purchasing patterns and savings
- The statistics can inform business decisions about pricing, promotions, and user engagement

###### Mathematical Operations:

- Demonstrates how to perform calculations across datasets
- The savings calculation shows how to derive new metrics from existing data points

## Next Steps

Last but not least, we will finish the API integration by implementing user-related API functions. This will include creating functions to handle user authentication, and fetch user profiles. These functions will be essential for building the dashboard functionality and user management features in our e-commerce platform.

Head over to [Users API Integration](/ecommerce-platform/connecting-to-the-API/users) to get the last piece of the API integration puzzle.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

fix: add overview sections to API documentation for clarity and context

src/app/ecommerce-platform/connecting-to-the-API/cart/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Cart API Integration

## Table of Contents

## Overview

The Carts API provides endpoints to manage shopping carts in an e-commerce platform. It allows users to create, update, and delete carts, as well as fetch cart details and previously purchased items.

This API is designed to work with the DummyJSON service, which simulates a backend for e-commerce applications. The Carts API is essential for managing user shopping carts, enabling features like adding products, updating quantities, and viewing order history.

## Carts API Functionality

- **GET /carts** - Fetch all carts
- **GET /carts/{`id`}** - Fetch single cart
- **POST /carts/add** - Add new cart
- **PUT /carts/{`id`}** - Update cart
- **DELETE /carts/{`id`}** - Delete cart

Handles shopping cart operations:

- **fetchUserCart(userId)** - Get user's cart
- **addToCart(productId, quantity)** - Add product to cart
- **updateCartItem(itemId, quantity)** - Update cart item
- **removeFromCart(itemId)** - Remove item from cart

### Data Flow

> User Action → Cart Context → Local Storage ↔ Carts API → DummyJSON

## The `import` Statements

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts
import { UserCartsResponse, Cart, CartProduct } from "@/lib/interfaces/cart";
import { API_BASE_URL } from ".";
```

## `fetchUserCarts` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Fetches the shopping carts associated with the current user.
 *
 * This asynchronous function retrieves the user's cart data from the API.
 * It can be used to display the user's current cart contents or manage cart operations.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<any>} A promise that resolves to the user's cart data.
 * @throws {Error} If the API request fails or returns an error.
 */
export async function fetchUserCarts(
  userId: number
): Promise<UserCartsResponse> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/users/${userId}/carts`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch user carts: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const data: UserCartsResponse = await response.json();
    return data;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching user carts:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates several important concepts in API integration:

###### Function Parameters & TypeScript Types:

- The function accepts a `userId` parameter of type `number`, ensuring type safety
- The return type `Promise<UserCartsResponse>` explicitly defines what the function will return asynchronously

###### API Endpoint Construction:

- Uses template literals to dynamically build the URL: `${API_BASE_URL}/users/${userId}/carts`
- This follows RESTful API conventions where user-specific resources are nested under the user endpoint

###### Error Handling Strategy:

- The `try-catch` block provides comprehensive error handling
- Checks `response.ok` to verify the HTTP request was successful (status 200-299)
- Throws descriptive errors that include the HTTP status text for debugging
- Logs errors to the console for development debugging while still throwing them up the call stack

###### Asynchronous Programming:

- Uses `async/await` syntax for cleaner, more readable asynchronous code
- The `fetch()` function returns a Promise, which is handled with `await`
- Type assertion with `UserCartsResponse` ensures the JSON response matches our expected interface structure

<BackToTop />

## `fetchCartById` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Fetches the cart details for a given cart ID.
 *
 * @param cartId - The unique identifier of the cart to retrieve.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to the Cart object corresponding to the provided cart ID.
 */
export async function fetchCartById(cartId: number): Promise<Cart> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/carts/${cartId}`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch cart: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const cart: Cart = await response.json();
    return cart;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching cart:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function showcases fundamental concepts in single-resource API fetching:

###### Resource Identification:

- Uses a unique `cartId` parameter to identify a specific cart resource
- Follows RESTful conventions where each resource has a unique identifier in the URL path

###### HTTP GET Request Pattern:

- Demonstrates the standard pattern for fetching a single resource by ID
- The endpoint structure `/carts/${cartId}` clearly indicates we're requesting one specific cart

###### Response Type Handling:

- Returns a `Promise<Cart>` indicating this function deals with a single cart object
- The `Cart` interface ensures the response data structure matches our application's expectations

###### Error Management:

- Implements the same robust error handling pattern as other API functions
- Provides specific error messages that help identify whether the issue is with the request or the response
- The error logging helps developers debug issues during development while maintaining clean error propagation

<BackToTop />

## `fetchAllCarts` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Fetches all shopping carts from the API.
 *
 * This asynchronous function retrieves a list of all carts available in the system.
 * It can be used to display or manage user carts in the ecommerce platform.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<Array>} A promise that resolves to an array of cart objects.
 * @throws {Error} Throws an error if the fetch operation fails.
 */
export async function fetchAllCarts(
  limit: number = 20,
  skip: number = 0
): Promise<{
  carts: Cart[];
  total: number;
  skip: number;
  limit: number;
}> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(
      `${API_BASE_URL}/carts?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
    );

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch carts: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const data = await response.json();
    return data;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching all carts:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function introduces advanced concepts for handling large datasets and pagination:

###### Default Parameters in TypeScript:

- Uses default parameter values (`limit: number = 20, skip: number = 0`) to provide sensible defaults
- This makes the function flexible - it can be called with no parameters, one parameter, or both parameters

###### Query Parameters for Pagination:

- Constructs URL query parameters using template literals: `?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
- This implements pagination, which is crucial for performance when dealing with large datasets
- `limit` controls how many records to return, while `skip` determines how many to bypass (for page navigation)

###### Complex Return Type:

- The return type is an object with multiple properties: `{ carts: Cart[]; total: number; skip: number; limit: number }`
- This pattern provides not just the data, but also metadata about the pagination state
- The `total` field helps calculate how many pages exist, while `skip` and `limit` help track current position

###### Administrative Use Case:

- This function is designed for admin dashboards or system overviews where you need to see all carts
- The pagination makes it suitable for displaying large amounts of data without performance issues

<BackToTop />

## `getPreviouslyPurchased` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Retrieves a list of items that the user has previously purchased.
 * This asynchronous function typically interacts with the backend API
 * to fetch purchase history or previously bought products for the current user.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<Array>} A promise that resolves to an array of previously purchased items.
 */
export async function getPreviouslyPurchased(
  userId: number
): Promise<CartProduct[]> {
  try {
    const userCarts = await fetchUserCarts(userId);

    // Flatten all products from all carts
    const allProducts: CartProduct[] = userCarts.carts.flatMap(
      (cart) => cart.products
    );

    // Remove duplicates based on product ID and aggregate quantities
    const uniqueProducts: { [key: number]: CartProduct } = {};

    // @collapse
    allProducts.forEach((product) => {
      if (uniqueProducts[product.id]) {
        // If product already exists, add to quantity and total
        uniqueProducts[product.id].quantity += product.quantity;
        uniqueProducts[product.id].total += product.total;
        uniqueProducts[product.id].discountedTotal += product.discountedTotal;
      } else {
        // First time seeing this product
        uniqueProducts[product.id] = { ...product };
      }
    });

    return Object.values(uniqueProducts);
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error getting previously purchased products:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates advanced data processing techniques and functional programming concepts:

###### Function Composition:

- Calls `fetchUserCarts()` first to get raw cart data, then processes it
- This shows how to build complex operations by combining simpler functions

###### Array Method Chaining:

- Uses `flatMap()` to flatten nested arrays: `userCarts.carts.flatMap(cart => cart.products)`
- `flatMap()` is more efficient than using `map()` followed by `flat()` - it combines both operations

###### Data Aggregation with Object as Hash Map:

- Creates an object `uniqueProducts` to track products by their ID as keys
- This is a common pattern for deduplicating and aggregating data efficiently (O(1) lookup time)

###### Conditional Logic for Aggregation:

- Uses an if-else structure to either add a new product or update an existing one
- When a product already exists, it aggregates the quantities and totals across multiple purchases
- The spread operator `{ ...product }` creates a copy to avoid mutating the original data

###### Object Methods for Final Processing:

- `Object.values()` converts the hash map back to an array
- This pattern (array → object → array) is common for deduplication and aggregation tasks

###### Business Logic Implementation:

- Solves the real-world problem of showing "previously purchased" items without duplicates
- Aggregates purchase quantities and totals, giving users meaningful purchase history data

## `getOrderHistory` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Retrieves the order history for a specific user.
 *
 * @param userId - The unique identifier of the user whose order history is to be fetched.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to an array of Cart objects representing the user's order history.
 */
export async function getOrderHistory(userId: number): Promise<Cart[]> {
  try {
    const userCarts = await fetchUserCarts(userId);

    // Sort by cart ID (descending) to show most recent orders first
    const sortedCarts = userCarts.carts.sort((a, b) => b.id - a.id);

    return sortedCarts;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error getting order history:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function focuses on data sorting and user experience optimization:

###### Data Reuse Pattern:

- Leverages the existing `fetchUserCarts()` function rather than duplicating API logic
- This demonstrates the DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) principle in software development

###### Array Sorting for User Experience:

- Uses the `sort()` method with a comparison function: `(a, b) => b.id - a.id`
- The comparison `b.id - a.id` creates descending order (newest first)
- Sorting by ID assumes that higher IDs represent more recent orders (common in databases with auto-incrementing IDs)

###### Immutable Data Handling:

- `sort()` mutates the original array, but since we're working with data from an API response, this is acceptable
- In more complex scenarios, you might use `[...userCarts.carts].sort()` to avoid mutation

###### Business Logic for Order History:

- Prioritizes recent orders first, which is what users typically expect to see
- Returns the complete cart objects, giving access to all order details (products, totals, dates, etc.)
- This provides a foundation for building order history displays in the user interface
  <BackToTop />

## `getUserPurchaseStats` Function

```typescript
// src/api/carts.ts

/**
 * Retrieves purchase statistics for a specific user.
 *
 * @param userId - The unique identifier of the user whose purchase statistics are to be fetched.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to an object containing the user's purchase statistics.
 */
export async function getUserPurchaseStats(userId: number): Promise<{
  totalOrders: number;
  totalSpent: number;
  totalItems: number;
  totalSavings: number;
}> {
  try {
    const userCarts = await fetchUserCarts(userId);

    // @collapse
    const stats = userCarts.carts.reduce(
      (acc, cart) => {
        acc.totalOrders += 1;
        acc.totalSpent += cart.discountedTotal;
        acc.totalItems += cart.totalProducts;
        acc.totalSavings += cart.total - cart.discountedTotal;
        return acc;
      },
      {
        totalOrders: 0,
        totalSpent: 0,
        totalItems: 0,
        totalSavings: 0,
      }
    );

    return stats;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error getting user purchase stats:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates the powerful `reduce()` method for statistical calculations:

###### Array.reduce() for Aggregation:

- Uses `reduce()` to iterate through all carts and accumulate statistics
- The accumulator (`acc`) starts with initial values of 0 for all statistics
- Each iteration adds the current cart's values to the running totals

###### Accumulator Pattern:

- `acc.totalOrders += 1` - counts each cart as one order
- `acc.totalSpent += cart.discountedTotal` - sums up the actual amounts paid (after discounts)
- `acc.totalItems += cart.totalProducts` - aggregates the total number of items across all orders
- `acc.totalSavings += cart.total - cart.discountedTotal` - calculates savings by subtracting discounted price from original price

###### Initial Value Object:

- The second parameter to `reduce()` provides the starting accumulator value
- Uses an object with all statistics initialized to 0
- This ensures the function works correctly even if the user has no carts

###### Business Intelligence:

- Creates meaningful metrics that can be displayed in user dashboards
- Helps users understand their purchasing patterns and savings
- The statistics can inform business decisions about pricing, promotions, and user engagement

###### Mathematical Operations:

- Demonstrates how to perform calculations across datasets
- The savings calculation shows how to derive new metrics from existing data points

## Next Steps

Last but not least, we will finish the API integration by implementing user-related API functions. This will include creating functions to handle user authentication, and fetch user profiles. These functions will be essential for building the dashboard functionality and user management features in our e-commerce platform.

Head over to [Users API Integration](/ecommerce-platform/connecting-to-the-API/users) to get the last piece of the API integration puzzle.

<BackToTop />
