src/app/portfolio-website/overview/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

## Table of Contents

## Overview

This portfolio website is built using Next.js and TypeScript, showcasing my projects and skills. It integrates with a GitHub API to dynamically fetch and display my repositories, providing an up-to-date view of my work. The site is designed to be responsive and user-friendly, with a focus on performance and accessibility.

Creating a full-stack portfolio website using Next.js allows you to leverage its features for both front-end and back-end development, making it a powerful and efficient framework for building dynamic applications like portfolios or blogs.

### Goals

- Create a portfolio website that showcases your projects and skills.
- Integrate with the GitHub API to dynamically fetch and display your repositories.
- Use Next.js and TypeScript to build a modern, responsive, and SEO-optimized website.
- Implement a clean and user-friendly design using Tailwind CSS and shadcn/ui components.

### Prerequisites

- Basic understanding of JavaScript and React.
  - If you are new to React, consider reviewing the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html).
- Familiarity with Next.js, TypeScript, and TSX.
  - If you are new to Next.js, check out the [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started).
- Node.js and npm installed on your machine.
- A code editor (like VSCode) for development.
  - There is a [VSCode extension for Next.js](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=zeit.next-vscode) that can enhance your development experience.
- Basic knowledge of Git for version control.
  - If you are new to Git, consider reviewing the [Git documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc).
- A GitHub account to host your code and showcase your projects.
  - If you don't have a GitHub account, you can sign up for free at [GitHub](https://github.com/signup).

### Features

- **Dynamic Content**: Fetches GitHub repositories using the GitHub API.
- **Responsive Design**: Adapts to various screen sizes for optimal viewing.
- **SEO Optimized**: Utilizes Next.js features for better search engine visibility.
- **TypeScript Support**: Ensures type safety and better developer experience.
- **Custom Components**: Modular components for easy maintenance and scalability.

### Technologies Used

- **Next.js**: Framework for building React applications with server-side rendering.
  - **next-themes**: A library for managing themes in Next.js applications.
- **TypeScript**: Superset of JavaScript that adds static types.
  - **TSX**: TypeScript with JSX syntax for React components.

#### UI Libraries

- **shadcn/ui**: A set of accessible and customizable UI components for React.
- **@headlessui/react**: Provides unstyled, accessible UI components for React.

#### Icon Libraries

- **react-icons**: A library for using popular icon sets in React applications.
- **lucide-react**: A collection of SVG icons for React applications.
- **@heroicons/react**: A set of free MIT-licensed high-quality SVG icons for React.
- **motion**: A library for creating animations in React applications.

#### Carousel Libraries

- **embla-carousel**: A lightweight carousel library for React.
  - **embla-carousel-autoplay**: An extension for Embla Carousel that adds autoplay functionality.
  - **embla-carousel-react**: A React wrapper for the Embla Carousel library.
- **GitHub API**: For fetching repository data.

#### Styling

- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework for styling.

### Development Tools

- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime for server-side logic.
- **npm**: Package manager for JavaScript, used to manage project dependencies.
- **ESLint**: A tool for identifying and fixing problems in JavaScript code.
- **Prettier**: A code formatter for maintaining consistent code style.
- **Vercel**: Platform for deploying Next.js applications.

  <BackToTop />

## How to Use This Guide

This guide will walk you through the process of building a portfolio website using Next.js and TypeScript. Each section will cover a specific aspect of the project, from setting up the development environment to deploying the final product.

You can follow the sections in order, or skip to specific parts that interest you. The guide is structured to provide a comprehensive understanding of building a portfolio website, with practical examples and code snippets.

In each section, you will find:

- Explanations of concepts and technologies used.
- Step-by-step instructions for implementing features.
- Tips and best practices for building a portfolio website.

For each example, you will find code snippets that you can copy and paste into your project. Feel free to modify the code to suit your needs and preferences.

There will be three styles implemented in this portfolio website:

- **Example 1**: Minimalistic Approach
  - A clean and simple design with a focus on content.
  - Uses minimal colors and typography for a sleek look.
- **Example 2**: Bold Fonts and Animations
  - A more vibrant design with bold typography and subtle animations.
  - Uses a mix of colors and fonts to create a dynamic user experience.
- **Example 3**: Professional, Clean and Modern
  - A professional design with a modern layout and clean aesthetics.
  - Focuses on readability and usability, with a polished look.

Feel free to choose the style that resonates with you the most, or mix and match elements from each example to create your unique portfolio website.

Underneath many blocks of code, you will find "Customization Options" that provide suggestions for modifying the code to suit your preferences. These options are meant to inspire you to personalize your portfolio website and make it your own.

## Getting Started

### Setting Up the Project

Use `npx create-next-app@latest` to set up a new Next.js project.

- Choose TypeScript when prompted to use TypeScript.
- Navigate to your project directory.

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest
```

<br />
You will see the following prompts:

- What is your project named?
  - Enter your desired project name (e.g., `my-portfolio`).
- Would you like to use TypeScript?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable TypeScript support.
- Would you like to use ESLint?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable ESLint for code quality.
- Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable Tailwind CSS for styling.
- Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory?
  - Choose `Yes` to organize your code in a `src` directory.
- Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)
  - Choose `Yes` to use the App Router for routing.
- Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`?
  - Choose `No` for now, as it is still experimental.
- Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)?
  - Choose `No` for the default alias.

```bash
$ npx create-next-app@latest
✔ What is your project named? … my-portfolio
✔ Would you like to use TypeScript? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use ESLint? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)? … No / Yes
Creating a new Next.js app in {file path}.

Using npm.

Initializing project with template: app-tw

Installing dependencies:
- react
- react-dom
- next

Installing devDependencies:
- typescript
- @types/node
- @types/react
- @types/react-dom
- @tailwindcss/postcss
- tailwindcss
- eslint
- eslint-config-next
- @eslint/eslintrc

added 405 packages, and audited 406 packages in 20s

165 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

found 0 vulnerabilities
Initialized a git repository.

Success! Created my-portfolio at {file path}
```

<BackToTop />

### Initialize Git Repository

After creating your Next.js project, it's a good idea to initialize a Git repository to track changes and push it to GitHub for version control.

- Run the following commands in your terminal:

```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
git remote add origin
git push -u origin main
```

This will create a new Next.js project with TypeScript support and set up a Git repository for version control.

### Install Dependencies

Add necessary packages like `tailwindcss`, `@headlessui/react`, `next-themes`, `react-icons`, `@heroicons/react`, `lucide-react`, `motion`, `embla-carousel`, `embla-carousel-autoplay`, and `embla-carousel-react` for styling and functionality.

- Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm install tailwindcss @headlessui/react next-themes react-icons @heroicons/react lucide-react motion embla-carousel embla-carousel-autoplay embla-carousel-react
```

<BackToTop />

### Install `shadcn/ui`

To install the `shadcn/ui` library, which provides a set of accessible and customizable UI components for React, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest init
```

This command will set up the `shadcn/ui` library in your Next.js project, allowing you to use its components in your portfolio website.

It will create a `components.json` file in your project directory, which contains the configuration for the `shadcn/ui` components.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://ui.shadcn.com/schema.json",
  "aliases": {
    "components": "@/components",
    "hooks": "@/hooks",
    "lib": "@/lib",
    "ui": "@/components/ui",
    "utils": "@/lib/utils"
  },
  "iconLibrary": "lucide",
  "rsc": true,
  "style": "new-york",
  "tailwind": {
    "baseColor": "neutral",
    "config": "",
    "css": "src/app/globals.css",
    "cssVariables": true,
    "prefix": ""
  },
  "tsx": true
}
```

It will also create your `lib/` directory, which contains utility functions and hooks for your project. For right now, it will contain a `utils.ts` file with some utility functions that you can use in your project.

The file will look like this:

```typescript
// src/lib/utils.ts
import { clsx, type ClassValue } from "clsx";
import { twMerge } from "tailwind-merge";

export function cn(...inputs: ClassValue[]) {
  return twMerge(clsx(inputs));
}
```

This utility function `cn` is used to merge class names together, which is useful for styling components with Tailwind CSS.

For example, you can use it to conditionally apply classes to your components based on certain conditions.

```typescript
import { cn } from "@/lib/utils";
const Button = ({ primary, className }) => {
  return (
    <button className={cn("btn", primary && "btn-primary", className)}>
      Click Me
    </button>
  );
};
```

The last thing this command does is update your `globals.css` file to include the necessary styles for the `shadcn/ui` components.

<BackToTop />

### Project Structure

Look through the `src` directory to understand how the project is organized. We will be working primarily in the `app` directory, which contains the pages and components of the portfolio website.

<br />
<br />

Your file structure should look something like this:

```plaintext
my-portfolio/
  README.md
  components.json
  eslint.config.mjs
  next-env.d.ts
  next.config.ts
  package-lock.json
  package.json
  postcss.config.mjs
  public/
    file.svg
    globe.svg
    next.svg
    vercel.svg
    window.svg
  src/
    app/
      favicon.ico
      globals.css
      layout.tsx
      page.tsx
    lib/
        utils.ts
  tsconfig.json
```

<BackToTop />

### Running the Development Server

To start the development server and see your portfolio website in action, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start the Next.js development server, and you can view your portfolio website in your browser at `http://localhost:3000`.

You should see the default Next.js welcome page, which indicates that your project is set up correctly.

## Next Steps

Now that you have set up your Next.js project and installed the necessary dependencies, you can start building your portfolio website. The next steps will guide you through creating the main components, fetching data from the GitHub API, and styling your website using Tailwind CSS.

Let's dive into the next sections to learn how to create the main components of your portfolio website, fetch data from the GitHub API, and style your website using Tailwind CSS.

Head over to the [Getting Set Up](/portfolio-website/getting-set-up/globalscss) section to continue building your portfolio website.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

feat: Update home page content with important considerations and examples for portfolio website design

src/app/portfolio-website/overview/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

## Table of Contents

## Overview

This portfolio website is built using Next.js and TypeScript, showcasing my projects and skills. It integrates with a GitHub API to dynamically fetch and display my repositories, providing an up-to-date view of my work. The site is designed to be responsive and user-friendly, with a focus on performance and accessibility.

Creating a full-stack portfolio website using Next.js allows you to leverage its features for both front-end and back-end development, making it a powerful and efficient framework for building dynamic applications like portfolios or blogs.

### Goals

- Create a portfolio website that showcases your projects and skills.
- Integrate with the GitHub API to dynamically fetch and display your repositories.
- Use Next.js and TypeScript to build a modern, responsive, and SEO-optimized website.
- Implement a clean and user-friendly design using Tailwind CSS and shadcn/ui components.

### Prerequisites

- Basic understanding of JavaScript and React.
  - If you are new to React, consider reviewing the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html).
- Familiarity with Next.js, TypeScript, and TSX.
  - If you are new to Next.js, check out the [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started).
- Node.js and npm installed on your machine.
- A code editor (like VSCode) for development.
  - There is a [VSCode extension for Next.js](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=zeit.next-vscode) that can enhance your development experience.
- Basic knowledge of Git for version control.
  - If you are new to Git, consider reviewing the [Git documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc).
- A GitHub account to host your code and showcase your projects.
  - If you don't have a GitHub account, you can sign up for free at [GitHub](https://github.com/signup).

### Features

- **Dynamic Content**: Fetches GitHub repositories using the GitHub API.
- **Responsive Design**: Adapts to various screen sizes for optimal viewing.
- **SEO Optimized**: Utilizes Next.js features for better search engine visibility.
- **TypeScript Support**: Ensures type safety and better developer experience.
- **Custom Components**: Modular components for easy maintenance and scalability.

### Technologies Used

- **Next.js**: Framework for building React applications with server-side rendering.
  - **next-themes**: A library for managing themes in Next.js applications.
- **TypeScript**: Superset of JavaScript that adds static types.
  - **TSX**: TypeScript with JSX syntax for React components.

#### UI Libraries

- **shadcn/ui**: A set of accessible and customizable UI components for React.
- **@headlessui/react**: Provides unstyled, accessible UI components for React.

#### Icon Libraries

- **react-icons**: A library for using popular icon sets in React applications.
- **lucide-react**: A collection of SVG icons for React applications.
- **@heroicons/react**: A set of free MIT-licensed high-quality SVG icons for React.
- **motion**: A library for creating animations in React applications.

#### Carousel Libraries

- **embla-carousel**: A lightweight carousel library for React.
  - **embla-carousel-autoplay**: An extension for Embla Carousel that adds autoplay functionality.
  - **embla-carousel-react**: A React wrapper for the Embla Carousel library.
- **GitHub API**: For fetching repository data.

#### Styling

- **Tailwind CSS**: Utility-first CSS framework for styling.

### Development Tools

- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime for server-side logic.
- **npm**: Package manager for JavaScript, used to manage project dependencies.
- **ESLint**: A tool for identifying and fixing problems in JavaScript code.
- **Prettier**: A code formatter for maintaining consistent code style.
- **Vercel**: Platform for deploying Next.js applications.

  <BackToTop />

## How to Use This Guide

This guide will walk you through the process of building a portfolio website using Next.js and TypeScript. Each section will cover a specific aspect of the project, from setting up the development environment to deploying the final product.

You can follow the sections in order, or skip to specific parts that interest you. The guide is structured to provide a comprehensive understanding of building a portfolio website, with practical examples and code snippets.

In each section, you will find:

- Explanations of concepts and technologies used.
- Step-by-step instructions for implementing features.
- Tips and best practices for building a portfolio website.

For each example, you will find code snippets that you can copy and paste into your project. Feel free to modify the code to suit your needs and preferences.

There will be a variety of styles and approaches to building a portfolio website, including different layouts, color schemes, and component designs. Each example will showcase different aspects of Next.js and TypeScript, as well as various libraries and tools that can enhance your portfolio website.

Feel free to choose the style that resonates with you the most, or mix and match elements from each example to create your unique portfolio website.

Underneath many blocks of code, you will find "Customization Options" that provide suggestions for modifying the code to suit your preferences. These options are meant to inspire you to personalize your portfolio website and make it your own.

## Getting Started

### Setting Up the Project

Use `npx create-next-app@latest` to set up a new Next.js project.

- Choose TypeScript when prompted to use TypeScript.
- Navigate to your project directory.

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest
```

<br />
You will see the following prompts:

- What is your project named?
  - Enter your desired project name (e.g., `my-portfolio`).
- Would you like to use TypeScript?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable TypeScript support.
- Would you like to use ESLint?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable ESLint for code quality.
- Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?
  - Choose `Yes` to enable Tailwind CSS for styling.
- Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory?
  - Choose `Yes` to organize your code in a `src` directory.
- Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)
  - Choose `Yes` to use the App Router for routing.
- Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`?
  - Choose `No` for now, as it is still experimental.
- Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)?
  - Choose `No` for the default alias.

```bash
$ npx create-next-app@latest
✔ What is your project named? … my-portfolio
✔ Would you like to use TypeScript? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use ESLint? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`? … No / Yes
✔ Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)? … No / Yes
Creating a new Next.js app in {file path}.

Using npm.

Initializing project with template: app-tw

Installing dependencies:
- react
- react-dom
- next

Installing devDependencies:
- typescript
- @types/node
- @types/react
- @types/react-dom
- @tailwindcss/postcss
- tailwindcss
- eslint
- eslint-config-next
- @eslint/eslintrc

added 405 packages, and audited 406 packages in 20s

165 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

found 0 vulnerabilities
Initialized a git repository.

Success! Created my-portfolio at {file path}
```

<BackToTop />

### Initialize Git Repository

After creating your Next.js project, it's a good idea to initialize a Git repository to track changes and push it to GitHub for version control.

- Run the following commands in your terminal:

```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
git remote add origin
git push -u origin main
```

This will create a new Next.js project with TypeScript support and set up a Git repository for version control.

### Install Dependencies

Add necessary packages like `tailwindcss`, `@headlessui/react`, `next-themes`, `react-icons`, `@heroicons/react`, `lucide-react`, `motion`, `embla-carousel`, `embla-carousel-autoplay`, and `embla-carousel-react` for styling and functionality.

- Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm install tailwindcss @headlessui/react next-themes react-icons @heroicons/react lucide-react motion embla-carousel embla-carousel-autoplay embla-carousel-react
```

<BackToTop />

### Install `shadcn/ui`

To install the `shadcn/ui` library, which provides a set of accessible and customizable UI components for React, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest init
```

This command will set up the `shadcn/ui` library in your Next.js project, allowing you to use its components in your portfolio website.

It will create a `components.json` file in your project directory, which contains the configuration for the `shadcn/ui` components.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://ui.shadcn.com/schema.json",
  "aliases": {
    "components": "@/components",
    "hooks": "@/hooks",
    "lib": "@/lib",
    "ui": "@/components/ui",
    "utils": "@/lib/utils"
  },
  "iconLibrary": "lucide",
  "rsc": true,
  "style": "new-york",
  "tailwind": {
    "baseColor": "neutral",
    "config": "",
    "css": "src/app/globals.css",
    "cssVariables": true,
    "prefix": ""
  },
  "tsx": true
}
```

It will also create your `lib/` directory, which contains utility functions and hooks for your project. For right now, it will contain a `utils.ts` file with some utility functions that you can use in your project.

The file will look like this:

```typescript
// src/lib/utils.ts
import { clsx, type ClassValue } from "clsx";
import { twMerge } from "tailwind-merge";

export function cn(...inputs: ClassValue[]) {
  return twMerge(clsx(inputs));
}
```

This utility function `cn` is used to merge class names together, which is useful for styling components with Tailwind CSS.

For example, you can use it to conditionally apply classes to your components based on certain conditions.

```typescript
import { cn } from "@/lib/utils";
const Button = ({ primary, className }) => {
  return (
    <button className={cn("btn", primary && "btn-primary", className)}>
      Click Me
    </button>
  );
};
```

The last thing this command does is update your `globals.css` file to include the necessary styles for the `shadcn/ui` components.

<BackToTop />

### Project Structure

Look through the `src` directory to understand how the project is organized. We will be working primarily in the `app` directory, which contains the pages and components of the portfolio website.

<br />
<br />

Your file structure should look something like this:

```plaintext
my-portfolio/
  README.md
  components.json
  eslint.config.mjs
  next-env.d.ts
  next.config.ts
  package-lock.json
  package.json
  postcss.config.mjs
  public/
    file.svg
    globe.svg
    next.svg
    vercel.svg
    window.svg
  src/
    app/
      favicon.ico
      globals.css
      layout.tsx
      page.tsx
    lib/
        utils.ts
  tsconfig.json
```

<BackToTop />

### Running the Development Server

To start the development server and see your portfolio website in action, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start the Next.js development server, and you can view your portfolio website in your browser at `http://localhost:3000`.

You should see the default Next.js welcome page, which indicates that your project is set up correctly.

## Next Steps

Now that you have set up your Next.js project and installed the necessary dependencies, you can start building your portfolio website. The next steps will guide you through creating the main components, fetching data from the GitHub API, and styling your website using Tailwind CSS.

Let's dive into the next sections to learn how to create the main components of your portfolio website, fetch data from the GitHub API, and style your website using Tailwind CSS.

Head over to the [Getting Set Up](/portfolio-website/getting-set-up/globalscss) section to continue building your portfolio website.

<BackToTop />
