src/app/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/shadcn/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# shadcn/ui Components

## Table of Contents

## Initializing `shadcn/ui`

To install the `shadcn/ui` library, which provides a set of accessible and customizable UI components for React, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest init
```

This command will set up the `shadcn/ui` library in your Next.js project, allowing you to use its components in your portfolio website.

It will prompt you to choose a base color for your Tailwind CSS configuration. You can select from the following options:

```bash
tmchuynh@tmch:~/Documents/my-portfolio$ npx shadcn@latest init
✔ Preflight checks.
✔ Verifying framework. Found Next.js.
✔ Validating Tailwind CSS config. Found v4.
✔ Validating import alias.
? Which color would you like to use as the base color? › - Use arrow-keys. Return to submit.
❯   Neutral
    Gray
    Zinc
    Stone
    Slate
```

After selecting a base color, the command will proceed to set up the necessary files and configurations for the `shadcn/ui` components in your project.

```bash
tmchuynh@tmch:~/Documents/my-portfolio$ npx shadcn@latest init
✔ Preflight checks.
✔ Verifying framework. Found Next.js.
✔ Validating Tailwind CSS config. Found v4.
✔ Validating import alias.
✔ Which color would you like to use as the base color? › Neutral
✔ Writing components.json.
✔ Checking registry.
✔ Updating CSS variables in src/app/globals.css
✔ Installing dependencies.
✔ Created 1 file:
  - src/lib/utils.ts

Success! Project initialization completed.
You may now add components.
```

## Downloading the shadcn/ui components

To download the `shadcn/ui` components, you can use the `npx shadcn@latest add` command followed by the component name. For example, to add the `Button` component, you would run:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest add button
```

This command will download the `Button` component and its dependencies, and add it to your project.

You can also add multiple components at once by separating their names with a space. For example, to add the `Button`, `Card`, and `Input` components, you would run:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest add button card input
```

For this e-commerce platform, we will be adding the following components:

- `card`
- `badge`
- `button`
- `checkbox`
- `input`
- `label`
- `select`
- `alert-dialog`
- `separator`
- `switch`
- `textarea`
- `dialog`
- `calendar`
- `sheet`
- `skeleton`
- `sidebar`
- `toggle`
- `avatar`
- `pagination`
- `radio-group`
- `sonner`

You can add all of these components at once by running the following command:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest add card badge button checkbox input label select alert-dialog separator switch textarea dialog calendar sheet skeleton sidebar toggle avatar pagination radio-group sonner
```

After you run this command, you'll find the component files in the `src/components/ui/` directory, and you can start using them in your project.

Your `src/components/ui/` directory will look like this:

```txt title="File Structure"
src
└── components
    └── ui
        ├── alert-dialog
        ├── avatar
        ├── badge
        ├── button
        ├── calendar
        ├── card
        ├── checkbox
        ├── dialog
        ├── input
        ├── label
        ├── pagination
        ├── radio-group
        ├── select
        ├── separator
        ├── sheet
        ├── skeleton
        ├── sidebar
        ├── switch
        ├── textarea
        ├── toggle
        └── sonner
```

## Next Steps

The next steps are to get our `Header.tsx` component set up, which will include a few different components that will be covered in future sections such as implementing the cart and wishlist functionality. For right now, we will focus on setting up the `Header.tsx` component with the `shadcn/ui` components we just downloaded and the `ThemeToggle.tsx` component we created earlier.

Head over to [The Skeleton Header](/ecommerce-platform/components/navigation-components/creating-the-skeleton-header) to continue setting up your application.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

fix: enhance documentation with overviews for development environment, shadcn/ui components, and theme provider

src/app/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/shadcn/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# shadcn/ui Components

## Table of Contents

## Overview

`shadcn/ui` is a library that provides a set of accessible and customizable UI components for React applications. It is designed to work seamlessly with Tailwind CSS, allowing you to create beautiful and responsive user interfaces with ease.

## Initializing `shadcn/ui`

To install the `shadcn/ui` library, which provides a set of accessible and customizable UI components for React, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest init
```

This command will set up the `shadcn/ui` library in your Next.js project, allowing you to use its components in your portfolio website.

It will prompt you to choose a base color for your Tailwind CSS configuration. You can select from the following options:

```bash
tmchuynh@tmch:~/Documents/my-portfolio$ npx shadcn@latest init
✔ Preflight checks.
✔ Verifying framework. Found Next.js.
✔ Validating Tailwind CSS config. Found v4.
✔ Validating import alias.
? Which color would you like to use as the base color? › - Use arrow-keys. Return to submit.
❯   Neutral
    Gray
    Zinc
    Stone
    Slate
```

After selecting a base color, the command will proceed to set up the necessary files and configurations for the `shadcn/ui` components in your project.

```bash
tmchuynh@tmch:~/Documents/my-portfolio$ npx shadcn@latest init
✔ Preflight checks.
✔ Verifying framework. Found Next.js.
✔ Validating Tailwind CSS config. Found v4.
✔ Validating import alias.
✔ Which color would you like to use as the base color? › Neutral
✔ Writing components.json.
✔ Checking registry.
✔ Updating CSS variables in src/app/globals.css
✔ Installing dependencies.
✔ Created 1 file:
  - src/lib/utils.ts

Success! Project initialization completed.
You may now add components.
```

## Downloading the shadcn/ui components

To download the `shadcn/ui` components, you can use the `npx shadcn@latest add` command followed by the component name. For example, to add the `Button` component, you would run:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest add button
```

This command will download the `Button` component and its dependencies, and add it to your project.

You can also add multiple components at once by separating their names with a space. For example, to add the `Button`, `Card`, and `Input` components, you would run:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest add button card input
```

For this e-commerce platform, we will be adding the following components:

- `card`
- `badge`
- `button`
- `checkbox`
- `input`
- `label`
- `select`
- `alert-dialog`
- `separator`
- `switch`
- `textarea`
- `dialog`
- `calendar`
- `sheet`
- `skeleton`
- `sidebar`
- `toggle`
- `avatar`
- `pagination`
- `radio-group`
- `sonner`

You can add all of these components at once by running the following command:

```bash
npx shadcn@latest add card badge button checkbox input label select alert-dialog separator switch textarea dialog calendar sheet skeleton sidebar toggle avatar pagination radio-group sonner
```

After you run this command, you'll find the component files in the `src/components/ui/` directory, and you can start using them in your project.

Your `src/components/ui/` directory will look like this:

```txt title="File Structure"
src
└── components
    └── ui
        ├── alert-dialog
        ├── avatar
        ├── badge
        ├── button
        ├── calendar
        ├── card
        ├── checkbox
        ├── dialog
        ├── input
        ├── label
        ├── pagination
        ├── radio-group
        ├── select
        ├── separator
        ├── sheet
        ├── skeleton
        ├── sidebar
        ├── switch
        ├── textarea
        ├── toggle
        └── sonner
```

## Next Steps

The next steps are to get our `Header.tsx` component set up, which will include a few different components that will be covered in future sections such as implementing the cart and wishlist functionality. For right now, we will focus on setting up the `Header.tsx` component with the `shadcn/ui` components we just downloaded and the `ThemeToggle.tsx` component we created earlier.

Head over to [The Skeleton Header](/ecommerce-platform/components/navigation-components/creating-the-skeleton-header) to continue setting up your application.

<BackToTop />
