src/app/resources-utilities/libraries/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from '@/components/BackToTop';

# Libraries  

## Table of Contents

## UI & Styling

### Component Libraries
Component libraries provide pre-built UI components that can be easily integrated into React applications, allowing developers to create consistent and visually appealing user interfaces. They often include a wide range of components such as buttons, forms, modals, and navigation elements, which can be customized to fit the application's design requirements.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Material-UI       | A popular React UI framework that implements Google's Material Design.                         |
| Ant Design        | A design system for enterprise-level products, providing a set of high-quality React components. |
| Chakra UI         | A simple, modular, and accessible component library that gives you the building blocks to build React applications. |
| Tailwind CSS      | A utility-first CSS framework that provides low-level utility classes to build custom designs. |
| Bootstrap         | A widely used CSS framework for developing responsive and mobile-first websites. |
| Bulma             | A modern CSS framework based on Flexbox, providing a clean and minimal design. |
| Framer Motion     | A popular library for creating animations and transitions in React applications. |
| Lottie            | A library for rendering animations created in Adobe After Effects as SVG or canvas. |
| GSAP              | A high-performance JavaScript animation library that works with CSS, SVG, and canvas. |
| React Icons     | A library that provides a collection of popular icons as React components. |
| Feather Icons | A collection of open-source icons that are simple and easy to use in web applications. |
| Font Awesome      | A popular icon toolkit that provides scalable vector icons that can be customized with CSS.

## Data Management
Data management libraries help developers manage application state, handle forms, and fetch data from APIs. They provide tools for state management, form validation, and data fetching, making it easier to build complex applications with consistent data handling.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Redux             | A predictable state container for JavaScript apps, often used with React.
| Zustand           | A small, fast, and scalable state management solution for React applications.
| Jotai             | A primitive and flexible state management library for React, focusing on simplicity and performance.
| React Hook Form   | A performant, flexible, and extensible form library for React applications, providing easy form validation and state management.
| Formik            | A popular form library for React that simplifies form handling and validation.
| React Final Form  | A flexible form library for React that provides a simple API for managing form state and validation.
| SWR               | A React Hooks library for data fetching that provides caching, revalidation, and focus tracking.
| React Query     | A powerful data-fetching library for React that simplifies server state management and caching.
| Apollo Client     | A comprehensive state management library for JavaScript that enables you to manage both local and remote data with GraphQL.
| Yup               | A JavaScript schema builder for value parsing and validation, often used with form libraries.
| Zod               | A TypeScript-first schema declaration and validation library that provides a simple and expressive API for defining schemas.
| Joi               | A powerful schema description language and data validator for JavaScript, often used for server-side validation. |


## Development Utilities
Development utilities are libraries and tools that provide common functionalities to simplify development tasks, such as date manipulation, HTTP requests, and testing. They help developers write cleaner and more efficient code by providing reusable functions and components.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Day.js            | A lightweight JavaScript date library for parsing, validating, manipulating, and formatting dates.
| Date-fns          | A modern JavaScript date utility library that provides a comprehensive set of functions for date manipulation.
| Moment.js         | A legacy JavaScript date library that provides a rich set of features for parsing, validating, manipulating, and formatting dates.
| Lodash            | A modern JavaScript utility library that provides a wide range of functions for common programming tasks, such as array manipulation, object manipulation, and function composition.
| Ramda             | A functional programming library for JavaScript that provides a set of utility functions for working with arrays, objects, and functions.
| RxJS              | A library for reactive programming using Observables, allowing you to compose asynchronous and event-based programs using operators.
| Axios             | A promise-based HTTP client for the browser and Node.js, providing an easy-to-use API for making HTTP requests.
| Fetch API         | A modern JavaScript API for making HTTP requests, providing a more powerful and flexible alternative to XMLHttpRequest.
| Testing Library   | A set of utilities for testing React components, providing a simple and intuitive API for writing tests that focus on user interactions.
| Enzyme            | A JavaScript testing utility for React that makes it easier to test React components' output and behavior.
| Sinon             | A library for creating spies, mocks, and stubs in JavaScript, making it easier to test asynchronous code and functions. |


## Build & Development
Build and development tools are essential for optimizing the development workflow, managing dependencies, and ensuring code quality. They help automate tasks such as bundling, transpiling, linting, and formatting code, making it easier to maintain and deploy applications.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Webpack           | A powerful module bundler for JavaScript applications that allows you to bundle your JavaScript, CSS, and other assets into a single file or multiple files for production.
| Vite              | A fast and modern build tool for JavaScript applications that provides a development server with hot module replacement and a production build with optimized assets.
| Rollup            | A module bundler for JavaScript that focuses on optimizing the output for production, allowing you to create smaller and more efficient bundles.
| Parcel            | A zero-configuration web application bundler that provides fast builds and supports a wide range of file types out of the box.
| Babel             | A JavaScript compiler that allows you to use the latest JavaScript features by transforming your code into a version compatible with older browsers and environments.
| TypeScript        | A typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript, providing static type checking and advanced features for large-scale applications.
| SWC               | A fast JavaScript/TypeScript compiler that provides a high-performance alternative to Babel, focusing on speed and efficiency.
| ESLint            | A static code analysis tool for identifying and fixing problems in JavaScript code, helping you maintain code quality and consistency.
| Prettier          | An opinionated code formatter that enforces a consistent style across your codebase, making it easier to read and maintain.
| Stylelint         | A modern CSS linter that helps you enforce consistent styles and catch errors in your CSS code, providing a wide range of rules and plugins for customization.
| TypeScript        | A typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript, providing static type checking and advanced features for large-scale applications.
| Flow              | A static type checker for JavaScript that helps you catch type errors and improve code quality by providing type annotations and inference.
| PropTypes          | A runtime type checking library for React components that allows you to define the expected types of props and catch errors during development. |


## Performance & Monitoring
Performance and monitoring tools are essential for ensuring the reliability and efficiency of web applications. They help developers track user behavior, identify errors, and optimize application performance by providing insights into various metrics and logs.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Google Analytics  | A web analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic, providing insights into user behavior, demographics, and engagement.
| Mixpanel          | A product analytics platform that helps you understand user behavior and engagement by tracking events and user interactions.
| Amplitude         | A product analytics platform that provides insights into user behavior, retention, and engagement by tracking events and user interactions.
| Sentry            | An error tracking and monitoring platform that helps you identify and fix errors in your applications by capturing and reporting exceptions and performance issues.
| Bugsnag           | An error monitoring and reporting tool that helps you identify and fix errors in your applications by capturing and reporting exceptions and performance issues.
| LogRocket         | A session replay and error tracking tool that helps you understand user behavior and identify issues in your applications by capturing user sessions and errors.
| Lighthouse CI     | An open-source tool for auditing the performance, accessibility, and best practices of web applications, providing insights and recommendations for improvement.
| Bundle Analyzer   | A tool for visualizing the size of your JavaScript bundles, helping you identify large dependencies and optimize your application's performance.
| New Relic         | A performance monitoring and observability platform that provides insights into the performance of your applications, infrastructure, and user experience.
| DataDog          | A monitoring and analytics platform that provides real-time insights into the performance of your applications, infrastructure, and logs, helping you identify and resolve issues quickly.
| Monitoring tools  | A general term for various tools and services that help you monitor the performance, availability, and health of your applications and infrastructure, providing insights into user behavior, errors, and performance metrics. |

Commit message:

feat: enhance documentation on libraries and frameworks, adding new animation tools and refining existing descriptions

src/app/resources-utilities/libraries/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from '@/components/BackToTop';

# Libraries  & Frameworks

## Table of Contents

## UI & Styling

### Component 
Components are reusable building blocks that help developers create user interfaces quickly and efficiently. They provide pre-designed UI elements that can be easily integrated into applications, saving time and effort in designing and implementing UI components from scratch.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Material-UI       | A popular React UI framework that implements Google's Material Design.                         |
| Ant Design        | A design system for enterprise-level products, providing a set of high-quality React components. |
| Chakra UI         | A simple, modular, and accessible component library that gives you the building blocks to build React applications. |
| Tailwind CSS      | A utility-first CSS framework that provides low-level utility classes to build custom designs. |
| Bootstrap         | A widely used CSS framework for developing responsive and mobile-first websites. |
| Bulma             | A modern CSS framework based on Flexbox, providing a clean and minimal design. |
| Framer Motion     | A popular library for creating animations and transitions in React applications. |
| Feather Icons | A collection of open-source icons that are simple and easy to use in web applications. |
| Font Awesome      | A popular icon toolkit that provides scalable vector icons that can be customized with CSS.


## Animation

Animations are essential for enhancing user experience and engagement in web applications. They help create smooth transitions, visual feedback, and interactive elements that make applications more dynamic and visually appealing. Animation libraries provide pre-built animations and transitions that can be easily integrated into applications.

| Tool | Description |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| GSAP | A high-performance JavaScript animation library that allows developers to create complex animations and transitions with ease. It provides a simple API for animating CSS properties, SVGs, and JavaScript objects. |
| Anime.js | A lightweight JavaScript animation library that works with CSS properties, SVG, DOM attributes, and JavaScript objects. It provides a simple and flexible API for creating animations and transitions. |
| Three.js | A JavaScript library that allows developers to create 3D animations and visualizations in the browser. It provides a powerful set of tools for rendering 3D graphics, including support for WebGL, shaders, and physics simulations. |
| Lottie | A library for rendering animations created in Adobe After Effects using JSON data. It allows developers to easily integrate complex animations into web applications without having to write custom code. Lottie animations are lightweight and can be easily scaled and customized. |
| Framer Motion | A popular animation library for React applications that provides a simple and intuitive API for creating animations and transitions. It supports both simple and complex animations, including gestures, scroll-based animations, and layout transitions. Framer Motion is built on top of the React animation library, making it easy to integrate into existing React projects. |
| Velocity.js | A fast and lightweight JavaScript animation library that provides a simple API for animating CSS properties, SVGs, and JavaScript objects. It supports both simple and complex animations, including easing functions, color animations, and transforms. Velocity.js is designed to be easy to use and integrate into existing projects, making it a popular choice for developers looking to add animations to their web applications. |
| GASP | A high-performance JavaScript animation library that allows developers to create complex animations and transitions with ease. It provides a simple API for animating CSS properties, SVGs, and JavaScript objects. GSAP is known for its performance and flexibility, making it a popular choice for creating animations in web applications. |


## Data Management
Data management tools are essential for handling application state, managing forms, and fetching data from APIs. They provide a structured way to manage and manipulate data, ensuring that applications remain responsive and maintainable. These tools help developers efficiently manage application state, validate forms, and fetch data from remote sources.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Redux             | A predictable state container for JavaScript apps, often used with React.
| Zustand           | A small, fast, and scalable state management solution for React applications.
| Jotai             | A primitive and flexible state management library for React, focusing on simplicity and performance.
| React Hook Form   | A performant, flexible, and extensible form library for React applications, providing easy form validation and state management.
| Formik            | A popular form library for React that simplifies form handling and validation.
| React Final Form  | A flexible form library for React that provides a simple API for managing form state and validation.
| SWR               | A React Hooks library for data fetching that provides caching, revalidation, and focus tracking.
| React Query     | A powerful data-fetching library for React that simplifies server state management and caching.
| Apollo Client     | A comprehensive state management library for JavaScript that enables you to manage both local and remote data with GraphQL.
| Yup               | A JavaScript schema builder for value parsing and validation, often used with form libraries.
| Zod               | A TypeScript-first schema declaration and validation library that provides a simple and expressive API for defining schemas.
| Joi               | A powerful schema description language and data validator for JavaScript, often used for server-side validation. |


## Development Utilities
Development utilities are essential for simplifying common programming tasks, such as date manipulation, HTTP requests, and testing. These libraries provide a wide range of functions and tools that help developers write cleaner, more efficient code. They can be used to handle various tasks, from formatting dates to making API calls and testing components.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Day.js            | A lightweight JavaScript date library for parsing, validating, manipulating, and formatting dates.
| Date-fns          | A modern JavaScript date utility library that provides a comprehensive set of functions for date manipulation.
| Moment.js         | A legacy JavaScript date library that provides a rich set of features for parsing, validating, manipulating, and formatting dates.
| Lodash            | A modern JavaScript utility library that provides a wide range of functions for common programming tasks, such as array manipulation, object manipulation, and function composition.
| Ramda             | A functional programming library for JavaScript that provides a set of utility functions for working with arrays, objects, and functions.
| RxJS              | A library for reactive programming using Observables, allowing you to compose asynchronous and event-based programs using operators.
| Axios             | A promise-based HTTP client for the browser and Node.js, providing an easy-to-use API for making HTTP requests.
| Fetch API         | A modern JavaScript API for making HTTP requests, providing a more powerful and flexible alternative to XMLHttpRequest.
| Testing Library   | A set of utilities for testing React components, providing a simple and intuitive API for writing tests that focus on user interactions.
| Enzyme            | A JavaScript testing utility for React that makes it easier to test React components' output and behavior.
| Sinon             | A library for creating spies, mocks, and stubs in JavaScript, making it easier to test asynchronous code and functions. |


## Build & Development
Build and development tools are essential for optimizing the development workflow, managing dependencies, and ensuring code quality. They help automate tasks such as bundling, transpiling, linting, and formatting code, making it easier to maintain and deploy applications.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Webpack           | A powerful module bundler for JavaScript applications that allows you to bundle your JavaScript, CSS, and other assets into a single file or multiple files for production.
| Vite              | A fast and modern build tool for JavaScript applications that provides a development server with hot module replacement and a production build with optimized assets.
| Rollup            | A module bundler for JavaScript that focuses on optimizing the output for production, allowing you to create smaller and more efficient bundles.
| Parcel            | A zero-configuration web application bundler that provides fast builds and supports a wide range of file types out of the box.
| Babel             | A JavaScript compiler that allows you to use the latest JavaScript features by transforming your code into a version compatible with older browsers and environments.
| TypeScript        | A typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript, providing static type checking and advanced features for large-scale applications.
| SWC               | A fast JavaScript/TypeScript compiler that provides a high-performance alternative to Babel, focusing on speed and efficiency.
| ESLint            | A static code analysis tool for identifying and fixing problems in JavaScript code, helping you maintain code quality and consistency.
| Prettier          | An opinionated code formatter that enforces a consistent style across your codebase, making it easier to read and maintain.
| Stylelint         | A modern CSS linter that helps you enforce consistent styles and catch errors in your CSS code, providing a wide range of rules and plugins for customization.
| TypeScript        | A typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript, providing static type checking and advanced features for large-scale applications.
| Flow              | A static type checker for JavaScript that helps you catch type errors and improve code quality by providing type annotations and inference.
| PropTypes          | A runtime type checking library for React components that allows you to define the expected types of props and catch errors during development. |


## Performance & Monitoring
These tools are essential for monitoring the performance of web applications, tracking user behavior, and identifying errors. They provide insights into application performance, user engagement, and error reporting, helping developers optimize their applications and improve user experience.

| Tool              | Description                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Google Analytics  | A web analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic, providing insights into user behavior, demographics, and engagement.
| Mixpanel          | A product analytics platform that helps you understand user behavior and engagement by tracking events and user interactions.
| Amplitude         | A product analytics platform that provides insights into user behavior, retention, and engagement by tracking events and user interactions.
| Sentry            | An error tracking and monitoring platform that helps you identify and fix errors in your applications by capturing and reporting exceptions and performance issues.
| Bugsnag           | An error monitoring and reporting tool that helps you identify and fix errors in your applications by capturing and reporting exceptions and performance issues.
| LogRocket         | A session replay and error tracking tool that helps you understand user behavior and identify issues in your applications by capturing user sessions and errors.
| Lighthouse CI     | An open-source tool for auditing the performance, accessibility, and best practices of web applications, providing insights and recommendations for improvement.
| Bundle Analyzer   | A tool for visualizing the size of your JavaScript bundles, helping you identify large dependencies and optimize your application's performance.
| New Relic         | A performance monitoring and observability platform that provides insights into the performance of your applications, infrastructure, and user experience.
| DataDog          | A monitoring and analytics platform that provides real-time insights into the performance of your applications, infrastructure, and logs, helping you identify and resolve issues quickly.
| Monitoring tools  | A general term for various tools and services that help you monitor the performance, availability, and health of your applications and infrastructure, providing insights into user behavior, errors, and performance metrics. |
