src/app/introduction-to-nextjs/project-structure/routing-files/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Routing Files

## Table of Contents

## Overview

Routing files in a Next.js application are essential for defining the structure and behavior of the application's routes. These files determine how different pages and components are accessed and rendered, allowing developers to create dynamic and static routes easily. Understanding routing files is crucial for building efficient and organized Next.js applications.

## Key Routing Files

- **`layout.js/ts`**: This file defines the layout for a specific route or set of routes. It allows developers to create a consistent structure for their pages, such as headers, footers, and sidebars, which can be reused across multiple pages.
- **`page.js/ts`**: This file represents the main content of a specific route. It is responsible for rendering the page's content and can include components, data fetching logic, and other functionalities. Each `page.js` file corresponds to a specific route in the application, such as `/about` or `/contact`.
- **`error.js/ts`**: This file handles errors for a specific route or set of routes. It allows developers to define custom error pages, such as 404 Not Found or 500 Internal Server Error pages, providing a better user experience when errors occur. The `error.js` file can include error handling logic and display relevant messages to users.
- **`loading.js/ts`**: This file is used to display a loading state while data is being fetched for a specific route. It allows developers to provide visual feedback to users during data loading operations, improving the overall user experience. The `loading.js` file can include spinners, skeleton screens, or other loading indicators to inform users that data is being processed.
- **`not-found.js/ts`**: This file is used to handle cases where a requested route does not exist. It allows developers to define a custom 404 Not Found page, providing a user-friendly message when users try to access a non-existent route. The `not-found.js` file can include navigation options or links to help users find their way back to valid routes.
- **`global-error.js/ts`**: This file is used to handle global errors that occur in the application. It allows developers to define a custom error page that can be displayed for any unhandled errors, providing a consistent error handling experience across the application. The `global-error.js` file can include error logging, user-friendly messages, and options for users to report issues.
- **`template.js/ts`**: This file is used to define a reusable template for a specific route or set of routes. It allows developers to create a consistent structure for pages that share similar layouts or functionalities. The `template.js` file can include common components, styles, and logic that can be reused across multiple pages, promoting code reusability and maintainability.
- **`default.js/ts`**: This file is used to define a default route for a specific directory. It allows developers to specify a fallback page that will be rendered when no other specific route matches. The `default.js` file can be used to provide a default landing page or a catch-all route for a directory, ensuring that users always have a valid page to access.

### The Importance of Routing Files

Routing files play a crucial role in the organization and functionality of a Next.js application. They allow developers to define the structure of their application, manage navigation between different pages, and handle errors effectively. By understanding and utilizing routing files, developers can create a well-structured application that provides a seamless user experience.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

feat: enhance documentation on routing files with additional details and example directory structure

src/app/introduction-to-nextjs/project-structure/routing-files/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Routing Files and Folders

## Table of Contents

## Overview

Routing files in a Next.js application are essential for defining the structure and behavior of the application's routes. These files determine how different pages and components are accessed and rendered, allowing developers to create dynamic and static routes easily. Understanding routing files is crucial for building efficient and organized Next.js applications.

## Key Routing Files

- **`layout.js/ts`**: This file defines the layout for a specific route or set of routes. It allows developers to create a consistent structure for their pages, such as headers, footers, and sidebars, which can be reused across multiple pages.
- **`page.js/ts`**: This file represents the main content of a specific route. It is responsible for rendering the page's content and can include components, data fetching logic, and other functionalities. Each `page.js` file corresponds to a specific route in the application, such as `/about` or `/contact`.
- **`error.js/ts`**: This file handles errors for a specific route or set of routes. It allows developers to define custom error pages, such as 404 Not Found or 500 Internal Server Error pages, providing a better user experience when errors occur. The `error.js` file can include error handling logic and display relevant messages to users.
- **`loading.js/ts`**: This file is used to display a loading state while data is being fetched for a specific route. It allows developers to provide visual feedback to users during data loading operations, improving the overall user experience. The `loading.js` file can include spinners, skeleton screens, or other loading indicators to inform users that data is being processed.
- **`not-found.js/ts`**: This file is used to handle cases where a requested route does not exist. It allows developers to define a custom 404 Not Found page, providing a user-friendly message when users try to access a non-existent route. The `not-found.js` file can include navigation options or links to help users find their way back to valid routes.
- **`global-error.js/ts`**: This file is used to handle global errors that occur in the application. It allows developers to define a custom error page that can be displayed for any unhandled errors, providing a consistent error handling experience across the application. The `global-error.js` file can include error logging, user-friendly messages, and options for users to report issues.
- **`template.js/ts`**: This file is used to define a reusable template for a specific route or set of routes. It allows developers to create a consistent structure for pages that share similar layouts or functionalities. The `template.js` file can include common components, styles, and logic that can be reused across multiple pages, promoting code reusability and maintainability.
- **`default.js/ts`**: This file is used to define a default route for a specific directory. It allows developers to specify a fallback page that will be rendered when no other specific route matches. The `default.js` file can be used to provide a default landing page or a catch-all route for a directory, ensuring that users always have a valid page to access.

**NOTE**
> These files can be `.js` or `.jsx` for JavaScript projects, or `.ts` or `.tsx` for TypeScript projects. The choice of file extension depends on the project's configuration and whether TypeScript is being used.

## Example Directory Structure
```plaintext
app/
  ├── about/
  │   ├── layout.js
  │   ├── page.js
  │   ├── error.js
  │   └── loading.js
  ├── blog/
  │   ├── [slug]/
  │   │   ├── page.js
  │   │   └── not-found.js
  │   └── index.js
  ├── contact/
  │   ├── layout.js
  │   └── page.js
  ├── global-error.js
  └── template.js
```

### The Importance of Routing Files

Routing files play a crucial role in the organization and functionality of a Next.js application. They allow developers to define the structure of their application, manage navigation between different pages, and handle errors effectively. By understanding and utilizing routing files, developers can create a well-structured application that provides a seamless user experience.

<BackToTop />
