src/app/portfolio-website/creating-the-pages/home-page/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Home Page

## Table of Contents

## About This Page

This page serves as the home page for the portfolio website. It provides an overview of the project and links to other sections of the site.

Take your portfolio as an opportunity to surprise and impress your potential clients. A portfolio website lets you show off all of your work in one place. This not only looks good to a client, but it can also help inspire you on your next projects.

## What You Should Include

Let us consider "_What is the purpose of having a portfolio website?_" The primary goal is to showcase your work, skills, and personality in a way that engages visitors and encourages them to explore further or get in touch. Here are some key elements to include on your home page:

- **Brief Bio**: A short, engaging description of who you are, what you do, and your unique value proposition. Show your personality by telling a story about your professional and personal experience. Your education, what you have learned to do, projects you loved working with, awards, and recognition. Use this page to show your skills, the way you think and what are your passions. Make it brief, pleasant and memorable.
- **Professional Photo**: A high-quality, professional headshot helps visitors connect with you on a personal level. A picture gives a more personal touch. A portrait of you or a nice shot of you working on a new design. It’s the most original way to give visitors a sense of who you are. Make it simple but inviting.
- **Hero Section**: A captivating headline and perhaps a brief video or image that immediately captures the visitor's attention and communicates your core message.
- **Project Highlights**: Curate a selection of your top projects or work samples. Use visuals like images, videos, or GIFs to make your work come alive.
- **Clear Categorization**: Organize your projects into categories or sections for easy browsing (e.g., by project type, client, or skill).
- **Specific Instructions**: Tell visitors what you want them to do next (e.g., "View my work," "Contact me," "Download my resume"). A call to action compliments the purpose of your portfolio. To help you come up with a call to action for your site, remind yourself of the purpose of your website. What are the actions you want visitors to take? Your website should provide various ways clients can contact you. Be sure to include your business email address even if you use a contact form as some clients prefer it over forms.
- **Prominent Placement**: Make your CTA easily visible and accessible, perhaps in the hero section or at the end of your project showcase.

## Import Considerations

- **Intuitive Layout:** Ensure the homepage is easy to navigate with a clear menu structure.
- **Testimonials/Social Proof:** Include testimonials from past clients or colleagues to build trust and credibility. Having some words from your clients can be very meaningful for those who just landed on your page. You can list your skills and tell how great you are but letting others say it can have a big influence. Reach out to your previous clients and ask for quotes that you can use on your website. People who enjoyed working with you will gladly praise your good work with a testimonial.
- **Search Functionality:** If you have a large portfolio, a search bar can help visitors quickly find what they're looking for.
- **Services Section:** If you offer specific services, clearly list them on the homepage.
- **Visual Consistency:** Maintain a consistent design aesthetic throughout your portfolio.
- **Personalization:** Incorporate your personality into the design and content to create a unique and memorable experience.

## Examples

### Example #1: Minimalistic Approach

```tsx
import React from "react";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

export default function MinimalistHomePage() {
  return (
    <div className="min-h-screen bg-white text-gray-900 font-light">
      {/* Navigation */}
      <nav className="fixed top-0 w-full bg-white/80 backdrop-blur-sm z-50 border-b border-gray-100">
        <div className="max-w-6xl mx-auto px-6 py-4">
          <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
            <div className="text-lg font-medium">John Doe</div>
            <div className="space-x-8 text-sm">
              <Link href="#work" className="hover:text-gray-600 transition-colors">Work</Link>
              <Link href="#about" className="hover:text-gray-600 transition-colors">About</Link>
              <Link href="#contact" className="hover:text-gray-600 transition-colors">Contact</Link>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>

      {/* Hero Section */}
      <section className="pt-32 pb-20 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto">
          <h1 className="text-5xl md:text-7xl font-extralight leading-tight mb-8">
            Web Developer<br />
            <span className="text-gray-500">& Designer</span>
          </h1>
          <p className="text-xl text-gray-600 max-w-2xl leading-relaxed">
            I create digital experiences that are simple, elegant, and functional. 
            Currently available for freelance projects.
          </p>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Featured Work */}
      <section id="work" className="px-6 pb-20">
        <div className="max-w-6xl mx-auto">
          <h2 className="text-2xl font-light mb-16 text-center">Selected Work</h2>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-2 gap-16">
            {[1, 2, 3, 4].map((item) => (
              <div key={item} className="group cursor-pointer">
                <div className="aspect-video bg-gray-100 mb-4 group-hover:bg-gray-200 transition-colors">
                  <div className="w-full h-full flex items-center justify-center text-gray-400">
                    Project {item}
                  </div>
                </div>
                <h3 className="text-lg font-medium mb-1">Project Title {item}</h3>
                <p className="text-gray-600 text-sm">Brief description of the project and technologies used.</p>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Contact */}
      <section id="contact" className="px-6 pb-20">
        <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto text-center">
          <h2 className="text-2xl font-light mb-8">Let's work together</h2>
          <a 
            href="mailto:hello@johndoe.com" 
            className="inline-block text-lg border-b border-gray-900 hover:border-gray-400 transition-colors"
          >
            hello@johndoe.com
          </a>
        </div>
      </section>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Example #2: Bold Fonts and Animations

```tsx
import React from "react";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

export default function BoldHomePage() {
  return (
    <div className="min-h-screen bg-black text-white overflow-hidden">
      {/* Navigation */}
      <nav className="fixed top-0 w-full bg-black/90 backdrop-blur-sm z-50">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto px-6 py-6">
          <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
            <div className="text-2xl font-black tracking-wider">ALEX</div>
            <div className="space-x-8 text-sm font-bold tracking-wide">
              <Link href="#work" className="hover:text-yellow-400 transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110">WORK</Link>
              <Link href="#about" className="hover:text-yellow-400 transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110">ABOUT</Link>
              <Link href="#contact" className="hover:text-yellow-400 transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110">CONTACT</Link>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>

      {/* Hero Section with Animation */}
      <section className="h-screen flex items-center justify-center relative">
        <div className="text-center">
          <div className="overflow-hidden">
            <h1 className="text-6xl md:text-9xl font-black leading-none mb-6 animate-pulse">
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-100">C</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-200">R</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-300">E</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-400">A</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-500">T</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-600">I</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-700">V</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-800">E</span>
            </h1>
          </div>
          <div className="text-2xl md:text-4xl font-bold mb-8 text-yellow-400 animate-pulse">
            FULL-STACK DEVELOPER
          </div>
          <p className="text-xl max-w-2xl mx-auto mb-12 opacity-80">
            I BUILD WEBSITES THAT DON'T JUST LOOK GOOD—THEY PERFORM LIKE ROCKETS 🚀
          </p>
          <button className="bg-yellow-400 text-black px-12 py-4 text-lg font-black tracking-wider hover:bg-white transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-105 hover:rotate-1">
            SEE MY WORK
          </button>
        </div>
        
        {/* Floating elements */}
        <div className="absolute top-1/4 left-1/4 w-4 h-4 bg-yellow-400 rounded-full animate-ping"></div>
        <div className="absolute bottom-1/3 right-1/4 w-6 h-6 bg-white rounded-full animate-bounce"></div>
        <div className="absolute top-1/2 right-1/6 w-3 h-3 bg-yellow-400 transform rotate-45 animate-spin"></div>
      </section>

      {/* Projects Grid */}
      <section id="work" className="py-20 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <h2 className="text-5xl font-black text-center mb-20 tracking-wider">
            MY <span className="text-yellow-400">PROJECTS</span>
          </h2>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-8">
            {[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6].map((item) => (
              <div 
                key={item} 
                className="bg-gray-900 p-6 hover:bg-yellow-400 hover:text-black transition-all duration-500 transform hover:scale-105 hover:-rotate-1 cursor-pointer group"
              >
                <div className="aspect-video bg-gray-800 group-hover:bg-black mb-4 flex items-center justify-center text-2xl font-black">
                  {item}
                </div>
                <h3 className="text-xl font-black mb-2 tracking-wide">PROJECT #{item}</h3>
                <p className="font-bold opacity-80">BLAZING FAST • RESPONSIVE • MODERN</p>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* CTA Section */}
      <section id="contact" className="py-20 px-6 text-center">
        <h2 className="text-6xl font-black mb-8 tracking-wider">
          LET'S <span className="text-yellow-400">CREATE</span>
        </h2>
        <p className="text-2xl mb-12 font-bold">SOMETHING AMAZING TOGETHER!</p>
        <a 
          href="mailto:alex@creative.dev" 
          className="inline-block bg-yellow-400 text-black px-16 py-6 text-2xl font-black tracking-wider hover:bg-white transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110 hover:rotate-1"
        >
          HIRE ME NOW!
        </a>
      </section>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Example #3: Professional, Clean and Modern

```tsx
import React from "react";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

export default function ProfessionalHomePage() {
  return (
    <div className="min-h-screen bg-slate-50 text-slate-800">
      {/* Navigation */}
      <nav className="fixed top-0 w-full bg-white/95 backdrop-blur-md z-50 shadow-sm">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto px-6 py-4">
          <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
            <div className="flex items-center space-x-2">
              <div className="w-8 h-8 bg-blue-600 rounded-lg"></div>
              <span className="text-xl font-semibold text-slate-900">Sarah Chen</span>
            </div>
            <div className="hidden md:flex space-x-8 text-sm font-medium">
              <Link href="#about" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">About</Link>
              <Link href="#services" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">Services</Link>
              <Link href="#portfolio" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">Portfolio</Link>
              <Link href="#testimonials" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">Testimonials</Link>
              <Link href="#contact" className="bg-blue-600 text-white px-4 py-2 rounded-lg hover:bg-blue-700 transition-colors">Contact</Link>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>

      {/* Hero Section */}
      <section className="pt-24 pb-16 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <div className="grid lg:grid-cols-2 gap-12 items-center">
            <div>
              <div className="inline-flex items-center bg-blue-50 text-blue-700 px-3 py-1 rounded-full text-sm font-medium mb-6">
                ✨ Available for new projects
              </div>
              <h1 className="text-5xl lg:text-6xl font-bold text-slate-900 leading-tight mb-6">
                Full-Stack Developer & 
                <span className="text-blue-600"> UI Designer</span>
              </h1>
              <p className="text-xl text-slate-600 leading-relaxed mb-8 max-w-xl">
                I help businesses create exceptional digital experiences through modern web development and thoughtful design.
              </p>
              <div className="flex flex-col sm:flex-row gap-4">
                <button className="bg-blue-600 text-white px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-blue-700 transition-colors">
                  View My Work
                </button>
                <button className="border border-slate-300 text-slate-700 px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-slate-100 transition-colors">
                  Download Resume
                </button>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div className="relative">
              <div className="aspect-square bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-100 to-purple-100 rounded-2xl flex items-center justify-center">
                <div className="w-64 h-64 bg-white rounded-xl shadow-lg flex items-center justify-center text-slate-400">
                  Professional Photo
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Services */}
      <section id="services" className="py-16 px-6 bg-white">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <div className="text-center mb-16">
            <h2 className="text-3xl font-bold text-slate-900 mb-4">What I Do</h2>
            <p className="text-slate-600 max-w-2xl mx-auto">
              I specialize in creating modern, scalable web applications with a focus on user experience and performance.
            </p>
          </div>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-3 gap-8">
            {[
              { title: "Frontend Development", desc: "React, Next.js, TypeScript", icon: "🎨" },
              { title: "Backend Development", desc: "Node.js, Python, PostgreSQL", icon: "⚙️" },
              { title: "UI/UX Design", desc: "Figma, Adobe Creative Suite", icon: "✨" }
            ].map((service, index) => (
              <div key={index} className="bg-slate-50 p-8 rounded-xl hover:shadow-lg transition-shadow">
                <div className="text-3xl mb-4">{service.icon}</div>
                <h3 className="text-xl font-semibold text-slate-900 mb-3">{service.title}</h3>
                <p className="text-slate-600">{service.desc}</p>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Portfolio Preview */}
      <section id="portfolio" className="py-16 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <div className="text-center mb-16">
            <h2 className="text-3xl font-bold text-slate-900 mb-4">Featured Projects</h2>
            <p className="text-slate-600">A selection of my recent work</p>
          </div>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-8">
            {[1, 2, 3].map((project) => (
              <div key={project} className="group cursor-pointer">
                <div className="aspect-video bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-100 to-purple-100 rounded-xl mb-4 overflow-hidden">
                  <div className="w-full h-full bg-white m-4 rounded-lg shadow-sm flex items-center justify-center text-slate-400 group-hover:scale-105 transition-transform">
                    Project {project}
                  </div>
                </div>
                <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold text-slate-900 mb-2">E-commerce Platform</h3>
                <p className="text-slate-600 text-sm mb-3">A modern e-commerce solution built with Next.js and Stripe integration.</p>
                <div className="flex gap-2">
                  <span className="bg-blue-100 text-blue-700 px-2 py-1 rounded text-xs font-medium">React</span>
                  <span className="bg-green-100 text-green-700 px-2 py-1 rounded text-xs font-medium">Node.js</span>
                </div>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* CTA Section */}
      <section id="contact" className="py-16 px-6 bg-slate-900 text-white">
        <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto text-center">
          <h2 className="text-3xl font-bold mb-4">Ready to Start Your Project?</h2>
          <p className="text-slate-300 mb-8 max-w-2xl mx-auto">
            Let's discuss how I can help bring your ideas to life with modern web development solutions.
          </p>
          <div className="flex flex-col sm:flex-row gap-4 justify-center">
            <a 
              href="mailto:sarah@example.com" 
              className="bg-blue-600 text-white px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-blue-700 transition-colors"
            >
              Get In Touch
            </a>
            <a 
              href="tel:+1234567890" 
              className="border border-slate-600 text-white px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-slate-800 transition-colors"
            >
              Schedule a Call
            </a>
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

feat: Update home page content with important considerations and examples for portfolio website design

src/app/portfolio-website/creating-the-pages/home-page/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Home Page

## Table of Contents

## About This Page

This page serves as the home page for the portfolio website. It provides an overview of the project and links to other sections of the site.

Take your portfolio as an opportunity to surprise and impress your potential clients. A portfolio website lets you show off all of your work in one place. This not only looks good to a client, but it can also help inspire you on your next projects.

## What You Should Include

Let us consider "_What is the purpose of having a portfolio website?_" The primary goal is to showcase your work, skills, and personality in a way that engages visitors and encourages them to explore further or get in touch. Here are some key elements to include on your home page:

- **Brief Bio**: A short, engaging description of who you are, what you do, and your unique value proposition. Show your personality by telling a story about your professional and personal experience. Your education, what you have learned to do, projects you loved working with, awards, and recognition. Use this page to show your skills, the way you think and what are your passions. Make it brief, pleasant and memorable.
- **Professional Photo**: A high-quality, professional headshot helps visitors connect with you on a personal level. A picture gives a more personal touch. A portrait of you or a nice shot of you working on a new design. It’s the most original way to give visitors a sense of who you are. Make it simple but inviting.
- **Hero Section**: A captivating headline and perhaps a brief video or image that immediately captures the visitor's attention and communicates your core message.
- **Project Highlights**: Curate a selection of your top projects or work samples. Use visuals like images, videos, or GIFs to make your work come alive.
- **Clear Categorization**: Organize your projects into categories or sections for easy browsing (e.g., by project type, client, or skill).
- **Specific Instructions**: Tell visitors what you want them to do next (e.g., "View my work," "Contact me," "Download my resume"). A call to action compliments the purpose of your portfolio. To help you come up with a call to action for your site, remind yourself of the purpose of your website. What are the actions you want visitors to take? Your website should provide various ways clients can contact you. Be sure to include your business email address even if you use a contact form as some clients prefer it over forms.
- **Prominent Placement**: Make your CTA easily visible and accessible, perhaps in the hero section or at the end of your project showcase.

## Important Considerations

- **Intuitive Layout:** Ensure the homepage is easy to navigate with a clear menu structure.
- **Testimonials/Social Proof:** Include testimonials from past clients or colleagues to build trust and credibility. Having some words from your clients can be very meaningful for those who just landed on your page. You can list your skills and tell how great you are but letting others say it can have a big influence. Reach out to your previous clients and ask for quotes that you can use on your website. People who enjoyed working with you will gladly praise your good work with a testimonial.
- **Search Functionality:** If you have a large portfolio, a search bar can help visitors quickly find what they're looking for.
- **Services Section:** If you offer specific services, clearly list them on the homepage.
- **Visual Consistency:** Maintain a consistent design aesthetic throughout your portfolio.
- **Personalization:** Incorporate your personality into the design and content to create a unique and memorable experience.

## Examples
Here are three examples of home pages for portfolio websites, each with a different design approach:

### Example #1: Minimalistic Approach

```tsx
import React from "react";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

export default function MinimalistHomePage() {
  return (
    <div className="min-h-screen bg-white text-gray-900 font-light">
      {/* Navigation */}
      <nav className="fixed top-0 w-full bg-white/80 backdrop-blur-sm z-50 border-b border-gray-100">
        <div className="max-w-6xl mx-auto px-6 py-4">
          <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
            <div className="text-lg font-medium">John Doe</div>
            <div className="space-x-8 text-sm">
              <Link href="#work" className="hover:text-gray-600 transition-colors">Work</Link>
              <Link href="#about" className="hover:text-gray-600 transition-colors">About</Link>
              <Link href="#contact" className="hover:text-gray-600 transition-colors">Contact</Link>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>

      {/* Hero Section */}
      <section className="pt-32 pb-20 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto">
          <h1 className="text-5xl md:text-7xl font-extralight leading-tight mb-8">
            Web Developer<br />
            <span className="text-gray-500">& Designer</span>
          </h1>
          <p className="text-xl text-gray-600 max-w-2xl leading-relaxed">
            I create digital experiences that are simple, elegant, and functional. 
            Currently available for freelance projects.
          </p>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Featured Work */}
      <section id="work" className="px-6 pb-20">
        <div className="max-w-6xl mx-auto">
          <h2 className="text-2xl font-light mb-16 text-center">Selected Work</h2>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-2 gap-16">
            {[1, 2, 3, 4].map((item) => (
              <div key={item} className="group cursor-pointer">
                <div className="aspect-video bg-gray-100 mb-4 group-hover:bg-gray-200 transition-colors">
                  <div className="w-full h-full flex items-center justify-center text-gray-400">
                    Project {item}
                  </div>
                </div>
                <h3 className="text-lg font-medium mb-1">Project Title {item}</h3>
                <p className="text-gray-600 text-sm">Brief description of the project and technologies used.</p>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Contact */}
      <section id="contact" className="px-6 pb-20">
        <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto text-center">
          <h2 className="text-2xl font-light mb-8">Let's work together</h2>
          <a 
            href="mailto:hello@johndoe.com" 
            className="inline-block text-lg border-b border-gray-900 hover:border-gray-400 transition-colors"
          >
            hello@johndoe.com
          </a>
        </div>
      </section>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Example #2: Bold Fonts and Animations

```tsx
import React from "react";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

export default function BoldHomePage() {
  return (
    <div className="min-h-screen bg-black text-white overflow-hidden">
      {/* Navigation */}
      <nav className="fixed top-0 w-full bg-black/90 backdrop-blur-sm z-50">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto px-6 py-6">
          <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
            <div className="text-2xl font-black tracking-wider">ALEX</div>
            <div className="space-x-8 text-sm font-bold tracking-wide">
              <Link href="#work" className="hover:text-yellow-400 transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110">WORK</Link>
              <Link href="#about" className="hover:text-yellow-400 transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110">ABOUT</Link>
              <Link href="#contact" className="hover:text-yellow-400 transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110">CONTACT</Link>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>

      {/* Hero Section with Animation */}
      <section className="h-screen flex items-center justify-center relative">
        <div className="text-center">
          <div className="overflow-hidden">
            <h1 className="text-6xl md:text-9xl font-black leading-none mb-6 animate-pulse">
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-100">C</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-200">R</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-300">E</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-400">A</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-500">T</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-600">I</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-700">V</span>
              <span className="inline-block animate-bounce delay-800">E</span>
            </h1>
          </div>
          <div className="text-2xl md:text-4xl font-bold mb-8 text-yellow-400 animate-pulse">
            FULL-STACK DEVELOPER
          </div>
          <p className="text-xl max-w-2xl mx-auto mb-12 opacity-80">
            I BUILD WEBSITES THAT DON'T JUST LOOK GOOD—THEY PERFORM LIKE ROCKETS 🚀
          </p>
          <button className="bg-yellow-400 text-black px-12 py-4 text-lg font-black tracking-wider hover:bg-white transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-105 hover:rotate-1">
            SEE MY WORK
          </button>
        </div>
        
        {/* Floating elements */}
        <div className="absolute top-1/4 left-1/4 w-4 h-4 bg-yellow-400 rounded-full animate-ping"></div>
        <div className="absolute bottom-1/3 right-1/4 w-6 h-6 bg-white rounded-full animate-bounce"></div>
        <div className="absolute top-1/2 right-1/6 w-3 h-3 bg-yellow-400 transform rotate-45 animate-spin"></div>
      </section>

      {/* Projects Grid */}
      <section id="work" className="py-20 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <h2 className="text-5xl font-black text-center mb-20 tracking-wider">
            MY <span className="text-yellow-400">PROJECTS</span>
          </h2>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-8">
            {[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6].map((item) => (
              <div 
                key={item} 
                className="bg-gray-900 p-6 hover:bg-yellow-400 hover:text-black transition-all duration-500 transform hover:scale-105 hover:-rotate-1 cursor-pointer group"
              >
                <div className="aspect-video bg-gray-800 group-hover:bg-black mb-4 flex items-center justify-center text-2xl font-black">
                  {item}
                </div>
                <h3 className="text-xl font-black mb-2 tracking-wide">PROJECT #{item}</h3>
                <p className="font-bold opacity-80">BLAZING FAST • RESPONSIVE • MODERN</p>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* CTA Section */}
      <section id="contact" className="py-20 px-6 text-center">
        <h2 className="text-6xl font-black mb-8 tracking-wider">
          LET'S <span className="text-yellow-400">CREATE</span>
        </h2>
        <p className="text-2xl mb-12 font-bold">SOMETHING AMAZING TOGETHER!</p>
        <a 
          href="mailto:alex@creative.dev" 
          className="inline-block bg-yellow-400 text-black px-16 py-6 text-2xl font-black tracking-wider hover:bg-white transition-all duration-300 transform hover:scale-110 hover:rotate-1"
        >
          HIRE ME NOW!
        </a>
      </section>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Example #3: Professional, Clean and Modern

```tsx
import React from "react";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

export default function ProfessionalHomePage() {
  return (
    <div className="min-h-screen bg-slate-50 text-slate-800">
      {/* Navigation */}
      <nav className="fixed top-0 w-full bg-white/95 backdrop-blur-md z-50 shadow-sm">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto px-6 py-4">
          <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
            <div className="flex items-center space-x-2">
              <div className="w-8 h-8 bg-blue-600 rounded-lg"></div>
              <span className="text-xl font-semibold text-slate-900">Sarah Chen</span>
            </div>
            <div className="hidden md:flex space-x-8 text-sm font-medium">
              <Link href="#about" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">About</Link>
              <Link href="#services" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">Services</Link>
              <Link href="#portfolio" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">Portfolio</Link>
              <Link href="#testimonials" className="text-slate-600 hover:text-blue-600 transition-colors">Testimonials</Link>
              <Link href="#contact" className="bg-blue-600 text-white px-4 py-2 rounded-lg hover:bg-blue-700 transition-colors">Contact</Link>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </nav>

      {/* Hero Section */}
      <section className="pt-24 pb-16 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <div className="grid lg:grid-cols-2 gap-12 items-center">
            <div>
              <div className="inline-flex items-center bg-blue-50 text-blue-700 px-3 py-1 rounded-full text-sm font-medium mb-6">
                ✨ Available for new projects
              </div>
              <h1 className="text-5xl lg:text-6xl font-bold text-slate-900 leading-tight mb-6">
                Full-Stack Developer & 
                <span className="text-blue-600"> UI Designer</span>
              </h1>
              <p className="text-xl text-slate-600 leading-relaxed mb-8 max-w-xl">
                I help businesses create exceptional digital experiences through modern web development and thoughtful design.
              </p>
              <div className="flex flex-col sm:flex-row gap-4">
                <button className="bg-blue-600 text-white px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-blue-700 transition-colors">
                  View My Work
                </button>
                <button className="border border-slate-300 text-slate-700 px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-slate-100 transition-colors">
                  Download Resume
                </button>
              </div>
            </div>
            <div className="relative">
              <div className="aspect-square bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-100 to-purple-100 rounded-2xl flex items-center justify-center">
                <div className="w-64 h-64 bg-white rounded-xl shadow-lg flex items-center justify-center text-slate-400">
                  Professional Photo
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Services */}
      <section id="services" className="py-16 px-6 bg-white">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <div className="text-center mb-16">
            <h2 className="text-3xl font-bold text-slate-900 mb-4">What I Do</h2>
            <p className="text-slate-600 max-w-2xl mx-auto">
              I specialize in creating modern, scalable web applications with a focus on user experience and performance.
            </p>
          </div>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-3 gap-8">
            {[
              { title: "Frontend Development", desc: "React, Next.js, TypeScript", icon: "🎨" },
              { title: "Backend Development", desc: "Node.js, Python, PostgreSQL", icon: "⚙️" },
              { title: "UI/UX Design", desc: "Figma, Adobe Creative Suite", icon: "✨" }
            ].map((service, index) => (
              <div key={index} className="bg-slate-50 p-8 rounded-xl hover:shadow-lg transition-shadow">
                <div className="text-3xl mb-4">{service.icon}</div>
                <h3 className="text-xl font-semibold text-slate-900 mb-3">{service.title}</h3>
                <p className="text-slate-600">{service.desc}</p>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* Portfolio Preview */}
      <section id="portfolio" className="py-16 px-6">
        <div className="max-w-7xl mx-auto">
          <div className="text-center mb-16">
            <h2 className="text-3xl font-bold text-slate-900 mb-4">Featured Projects</h2>
            <p className="text-slate-600">A selection of my recent work</p>
          </div>
          <div className="grid md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-3 gap-8">
            {[1, 2, 3].map((project) => (
              <div key={project} className="group cursor-pointer">
                <div className="aspect-video bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-100 to-purple-100 rounded-xl mb-4 overflow-hidden">
                  <div className="w-full h-full bg-white m-4 rounded-lg shadow-sm flex items-center justify-center text-slate-400 group-hover:scale-105 transition-transform">
                    Project {project}
                  </div>
                </div>
                <h3 className="text-lg font-semibold text-slate-900 mb-2">E-commerce Platform</h3>
                <p className="text-slate-600 text-sm mb-3">A modern e-commerce solution built with Next.js and Stripe integration.</p>
                <div className="flex gap-2">
                  <span className="bg-blue-100 text-blue-700 px-2 py-1 rounded text-xs font-medium">React</span>
                  <span className="bg-green-100 text-green-700 px-2 py-1 rounded text-xs font-medium">Node.js</span>
                </div>
              </div>
            ))}
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>

      {/* CTA Section */}
      <section id="contact" className="py-16 px-6 bg-slate-900 text-white">
        <div className="max-w-4xl mx-auto text-center">
          <h2 className="text-3xl font-bold mb-4">Ready to Start Your Project?</h2>
          <p className="text-slate-300 mb-8 max-w-2xl mx-auto">
            Let's discuss how I can help bring your ideas to life with modern web development solutions.
          </p>
          <div className="flex flex-col sm:flex-row gap-4 justify-center">
            <a 
              href="mailto:sarah@example.com" 
              className="bg-blue-600 text-white px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-blue-700 transition-colors"
            >
              Get In Touch
            </a>
            <a 
              href="tel:+1234567890" 
              className="border border-slate-600 text-white px-8 py-3 rounded-lg font-medium hover:bg-slate-800 transition-colors"
            >
              Schedule a Call
            </a>
          </div>
        </div>
      </section>
    </div>
  );
}
```
