src/app/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/theme-provider/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Theme Provider

## Table of Contents

## Overview

We will be adding onto the `providers.tsx` later on in the course, but for now, we will be setting up the theme provider. This will allow us to use the `shadcn/ui` components with our custom theme.

## The `providers.tsx` File

```tsx
// src/app/providers.tsx

"use client";

import { ThemeProvider } from "next-themes";
import { JSX, ReactNode } from "react";

/**
 * Providers component that wraps its children with necessary context providers.
 *
 * @param {Object} props - The component props.
 * @param {ReactNode} props.children - The child components to be wrapped by the providers.
 * @returns {JSX.Element} The wrapped children with context providers.
 */
export function Providers({ children }: { children: ReactNode }): JSX.Element {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider attribute="class" defaultTheme="light" enableSystem={true}>
      {children}
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

## The `ThemeToggle` Component

This component allows users to toggle between light and dark themes and will be located in `src/app/components/buttons`. It uses the `useTheme` hook from `next-themes` to manage the theme state.

```tsx
// src/components/buttons/ThemeToggle.tsx

"use client";
import { useTheme } from "next-themes";
import { JSX, useEffect, useMemo, useState } from "react";
import { FiMoon, FiSun } from "react-icons/fi";
import { Toggle } from "../ui/toggle";

/**
 * A React functional component that toggles the application's theme.
 * Returns a JSX element for the theme toggle UI, or null if not applicable.
 *
 * @returns {JSX.Element | null} The theme toggle component or null.
 */
export const ThemeToggle = (): JSX.Element | null => {
  const { theme, setTheme, systemTheme } = useTheme();
  const [mounted, setMounted] = useState(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    setMounted(true);
    if (!theme || theme === "system") {
      setTheme(systemTheme || "light");
    }
  }, [systemTheme, theme, setTheme]);

  const toggleTheme = () => {
    setTheme(theme === "dark" ? "light" : "dark");
  };

  const currentTheme = theme === "system" ? systemTheme : theme;

  // Memoize the toggle button content based on the theme
  const toggleButton = useMemo(
    () => (
      <Toggle
        aria-label="Toggle theme"
        onClick={toggleTheme}
        className="flex justify-center items-center bg-transparent data-[state=on]:bg-transparent dark:hover:bg-muted shadow-none rounded-lg w-9 h-9 text-accent hover:text-accent dark:text-accent transition-all duration-200 focus-visible:outline-none"
        pressed={currentTheme === "dark"}
      >
        {currentTheme === "dark" ? (
          <>
            <span className="sr-only">Toggle to light mode</span>
            <FiMoon className="w-4 h-4" />
          </>
        ) : (
          <>
            <span className="sr-only">Toggle to dark mode</span>
            <FiSun className="w-4 h-4" />
          </>
        )}
      </Toggle>
    ),
    [currentTheme, toggleTheme],
  );

  return mounted ? toggleButton : null;
};
```

## Next Steps

Don't worry about the error from the `Toggle` component since we haven't downloaded the `shadcn/ui` components yet. This will be resolved in a the next steps when we set up the `shadcn/ui` components.

Now, the `providers.tsx` file is set up to provide a theme context for your application. This allows you to use the `shadcn/ui` components with your custom theme.

Head to [Global Layout](/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/layout) to continue setting up your application.

Commit message:

fix: enhance documentation with overviews for development environment, shadcn/ui components, and theme provider

src/app/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/theme-provider/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Theme Provider

## Table of Contents

## Overview

We will be adding onto the `providers.tsx` later on in the course, but for now, we will be setting up the theme provider. This will allow us to use the `shadcn/ui` components with our custom theme.

We will be using the `next-themes` package to manage the theme state in our application. This package provides a simple way to toggle between light and dark themes, and it integrates well with `shadcn/ui` components.

## The `providers.tsx` File

```tsx
// src/app/providers.tsx

"use client";

import { ThemeProvider } from "next-themes";
import { JSX, ReactNode } from "react";

/**
 * Providers component that wraps its children with necessary context providers.
 *
 * @param {Object} props - The component props.
 * @param {ReactNode} props.children - The child components to be wrapped by the providers.
 * @returns {JSX.Element} The wrapped children with context providers.
 */
export function Providers({ children }: { children: ReactNode }): JSX.Element {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider attribute="class" defaultTheme="light" enableSystem={true}>
      {children}
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

## The `ThemeToggle` Component

This component allows users to toggle between light and dark themes and will be located in `src/app/components/buttons`. It uses the `useTheme` hook from `next-themes` to manage the theme state.

```tsx
// src/components/buttons/ThemeToggle.tsx

"use client";
import { useTheme } from "next-themes";
import { JSX, useEffect, useMemo, useState } from "react";
import { FiMoon, FiSun } from "react-icons/fi";
import { Toggle } from "../ui/toggle";

/**
 * A React functional component that toggles the application's theme.
 * Returns a JSX element for the theme toggle UI, or null if not applicable.
 *
 * @returns {JSX.Element | null} The theme toggle component or null.
 */
export const ThemeToggle = (): JSX.Element | null => {
  const { theme, setTheme, systemTheme } = useTheme();
  const [mounted, setMounted] = useState(false);

  useEffect(() => {
    setMounted(true);
    if (!theme || theme === "system") {
      setTheme(systemTheme || "light");
    }
  }, [systemTheme, theme, setTheme]);

  const toggleTheme = () => {
    setTheme(theme === "dark" ? "light" : "dark");
  };

  const currentTheme = theme === "system" ? systemTheme : theme;

  // Memoize the toggle button content based on the theme
  const toggleButton = useMemo(
    () => (
      <Toggle
        aria-label="Toggle theme"
        onClick={toggleTheme}
        className="flex justify-center items-center bg-transparent data-[state=on]:bg-transparent dark:hover:bg-muted shadow-none rounded-lg w-9 h-9 text-accent hover:text-accent dark:text-accent transition-all duration-200 focus-visible:outline-none"
        pressed={currentTheme === "dark"}
      >
        {currentTheme === "dark" ? (
          <>
            <span className="sr-only">Toggle to light mode</span>
            <FiMoon className="w-4 h-4" />
          </>
        ) : (
          <>
            <span className="sr-only">Toggle to dark mode</span>
            <FiSun className="w-4 h-4" />
          </>
        )}
      </Toggle>
    ),
    [currentTheme, toggleTheme],
  );

  return mounted ? toggleButton : null;
};
```

## Next Steps

Don't worry about the error from the `Toggle` component since we haven't downloaded the `shadcn/ui` components yet. This will be resolved in a the next steps when we set up the `shadcn/ui` components.

Now, the `providers.tsx` file is set up to provide a theme context for your application. This allows you to use the `shadcn/ui` components with your custom theme.

Head to [Global Layout](/ecommerce-platform/getting-set-up/layout) to continue setting up your application.
