src/app/ecommerce-platform/connecting-to-the-API/users/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Users API Integration

## Table of Contents

## Users API Functionality

- **GET /users** - Fetch all users with pagination
- **GET /users/{`id`}** - Fetch single user by ID
- **POST /auth/login** - Authenticate user credentials
- **GET /users/search?q={`query`}** - Search users by name
- **GET /auth/me** - Get current authenticated user profile

Manages user authentication and profile data:

- **authenticateUser(credentials)** - Login user
- **fetchUserProfile(id)** - Get user profile
- **updateUserProfile(id, data)** - Update user information
- **fetchRandomUser()** - Get random user for demos
- **fetchDemoCredentials()** - Get demo login credentials

### Data Flow

> User Input → Users API → DummyJSON Auth → JWT Token → Local Storage

### JWT Token Management

The application uses JWT tokens for authentication:

1. **Login Process**:
   - Send credentials to DummyJSON auth endpoint
   - Receive JWT token
   - Store token in local storage
   - Use token for subsequent API calls

2. **Token Validation**:
   - Check token expiration
   - Refresh token when needed
   - Clear token on logout

3. **Protected Routes**:
   - Verify token before accessing protected pages
   - Redirect to login if unauthorized

## The `import` Statements

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts
import { DummyUser, DummyUsersResponse } from "@/lib/interfaces/user";
import { API_BASE_URL } from ".";
```

## `fetchRandomUser` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Fetches a random user from the DummyUser API.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<DummyUser>} A promise that resolves to a randomly selected DummyUser object.
 */
export async function fetchRandomUser(): Promise<DummyUser> {
  try {
    // Get a random user ID between 1 and 100
    const randomId = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100) + 1;
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/users/${randomId}`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch user: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const user: DummyUser = await response.json();
    return user;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching random user:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates random data generation and mathematical operations for API testing:

###### Random Number Generation:

- `Math.random()` generates a decimal between 0 and 1 (exclusive)
- `Math.random() * 100` scales the range to 0-100 (exclusive)
- `Math.floor()` rounds down to get integers: 0, 1, 2, ..., 99
- Adding `+ 1` shifts the range to 1-100, matching the API's user ID range

###### Mathematical Concepts:

- This approach ensures uniform distribution across all possible user IDs
- The formula `Math.floor(Math.random() * max) + min` is a standard pattern for generating random integers within a range
- Understanding this pattern is crucial for creating test data and simulations

###### API Resource Access Pattern:

- Uses the RESTful pattern: `GET /users/{id}` to fetch a specific user
- The random ID generation makes this function useful for demos, testing, and prototyping
- This pattern is common in development environments where you need sample data

###### Error Handling Strategy:

- Follows the standard async/await error handling pattern used throughout the API layer
- Logs errors for debugging while re-throwing them for upstream handling
- The function can fail if the random ID doesn't exist, but DummyJSON typically has users 1-100

###### Use Cases in Development:

- Creating demo accounts for presentations
- Populating test environments with varied user data
- Building user onboarding flows that show different user types
- Testing UI components with diverse user profiles

<BackToTop />

## `fetchUsers` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Asynchronously fetches a list of users from the API.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<Array>} A promise that resolves to an array of user objects.
 * @throws {Error} Throws an error if the fetch operation fails.
 */
export async function fetchUsers(
  limit: number = 10,
  skip: number = 0
): Promise<DummyUsersResponse> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(
      `${API_BASE_URL}/users?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
    );

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch users: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const data: DummyUsersResponse = await response.json();
    return data;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching users:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function showcases pagination implementation and administrative data access patterns:

###### Default Parameters for Flexibility:

- `limit: number = 10` provides a sensible default for page size
- `skip: number = 0` defaults to starting from the beginning
- Default parameters make the function easy to use while allowing customization when needed

###### Pagination Mathematics:

- `limit` controls how many users to return (page size)
- `skip` determines how many users to bypass (for calculating page offsets)
- Formula for page navigation: `skip = (pageNumber - 1) * limit`
- Example: Page 3 with 10 users per page → `skip = (3-1) * 10 = 20`

###### Query Parameter Construction:

- Uses template literals to build query string: `?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
- This follows standard REST API conventions for pagination
- Query parameters are more RESTful than path parameters for optional modifiers

###### Administrative Use Cases:

- User management dashboards that display user lists
- Admin panels that need to browse through all system users
- Bulk operations that process users in batches
- Reporting features that analyze user demographics

###### Response Structure Handling:

- Returns `DummyUsersResponse` which typically includes:
  - `users`: Array of user objects
  - `total`: Total number of users in the system
  - `skip`: Current skip value (for pagination state)
  - `limit`: Current limit value (for pagination state)

###### Performance Considerations:

- Pagination prevents memory overload when dealing with large user bases
- Allows for responsive UI that loads quickly even with thousands of users
- Enables infinite scroll or traditional pagination UI patterns

<BackToTop />

## `fetchDemoCredentials` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Asynchronously fetches demo credentials for users.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<{ ... }>} A promise that resolves to an object containing demo credentials.
 */
export async function fetchDemoCredentials(): Promise<{
  username: string;
  password: string;
  fullName: string;
}> {
  try {
    const user = await fetchRandomUser();
    return {
      username: user.username,
      password: user.password,
      fullName: `${user.firstName} ${user.lastName}`,
    };
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching demo credentials:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates function composition and data transformation for demo purposes:

###### Function Composition Pattern:

- Builds complex functionality by combining simpler functions
- `fetchRandomUser()` provides the base data, this function transforms it
- This is a key principle in functional programming: compose small, focused functions

###### Data Transformation and Extraction:

- Takes a complete user object and extracts only the needed fields
- Creates a new object structure tailored for authentication demo purposes
- String interpolation with template literals: `${user.firstName} ${user.lastName}`

###### Demo and Testing Utilities:

- Provides realistic demo credentials for presentations and testing
- Eliminates the need to hardcode demo accounts
- Useful for onboarding flows where users can try the system without creating accounts

###### Object Destructuring Alternative:

- Could be refactored using destructuring: `const { username, password, firstName, lastName } = user`
- Current approach is more explicit about which fields are being used
- Both patterns are valid; choice depends on team preferences and readability

###### Error Propagation Strategy:

- Catches errors from `fetchRandomUser()` and re-throws them with additional context
- This provides a clear error trail: if demo credentials fail, you know it's likely a user API issue
- The error handling preserves the original error while adding contextual information

###### Use Cases in Development:

- Login form demos where you need working credentials
- Tutorial walkthrough where users need example accounts
- QA testing with varied user profiles
- Developer documentation that includes working examples

<BackToTop />

## `fetchUserById` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Fetches a user by their unique ID from the API.
 *
 * @param userId - The unique identifier of the user to fetch.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to a DummyUser object containing the user's data.
 */
export async function fetchUserById(userId: number): Promise<DummyUser> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/users/${userId}`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch user: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const user: DummyUser = await response.json();
    return user;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching user by ID:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function represents the fundamental pattern for individual resource retrieval:

###### RESTful Resource Access:

- Follows the standard REST pattern: `GET /users/{id}` for fetching a specific user
- Uses path parameters (not query parameters) for resource identification
- This is the most common pattern in REST APIs for accessing individual resources

###### Type-Safe Parameter Handling:

- Accepts `userId: number` ensuring only valid numeric IDs are passed
- TypeScript's type system prevents common errors like passing strings or undefined values
- The parameter name `userId` is descriptive and self-documenting

###### Direct Resource Mapping:

- The API response maps directly to the `DummyUser` interface
- No additional processing or transformation needed
- This simplicity makes the function fast and predictable

###### Error Handling Consistency:

- Uses the same error handling pattern as other functions in the module
- Consistent error messages help with debugging and logging
- The error context includes the specific operation being performed

###### Common Use Cases:

- User profile pages that display detailed user information
- Authentication systems that need to verify user details
- Admin panels that need to look up specific users
- Any component that needs to display user-specific information

###### Performance Characteristics:

- Fast and lightweight - single API call with minimal processing
- Cacheable at the HTTP level (GET requests can be cached)
- Suitable for frequent calls in user interfaces
- No pagination complexity since it returns a single resource

<BackToTop />

## Next Steps

How about that home page now? It's about time to see all your hard work pay off! In the next section, we will implement the home page of our e-commerce platform. This will include displaying featured products, categories, and other key information to give users a great first impression.

Head over to [Home Page](/ecommerce-platform/creating-the-pages/home-page) to see your e-commerce platform in action!

Commit message:

fix: add overview sections to API documentation for clarity and context

src/app/ecommerce-platform/connecting-to-the-API/users/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Users API Integration

## Table of Contents

## Overview

The Users API provides endpoints to manage user authentication and profile data in an e-commerce platform. It allows users to log in, fetch user profiles, and search for users. This API is designed to work with the DummyJSON service, which simulates a backend for e-commerce applications.

## Users API Functionality

- **GET /users** - Fetch all users with pagination
- **GET /users/{`id`}** - Fetch single user by ID
- **POST /auth/login** - Authenticate user credentials
- **GET /users/search?q={`query`}** - Search users by name
- **GET /auth/me** - Get current authenticated user profile

Manages user authentication and profile data:

- **authenticateUser(credentials)** - Login user
- **fetchUserProfile(id)** - Get user profile
- **updateUserProfile(id, data)** - Update user information
- **fetchRandomUser()** - Get random user for demos
- **fetchDemoCredentials()** - Get demo login credentials

### Data Flow

> User Input → Users API → DummyJSON Auth → JWT Token → Local Storage

### JWT Token Management

The application uses JWT tokens for authentication:

1. **Login Process**:
   - Send credentials to DummyJSON auth endpoint
   - Receive JWT token
   - Store token in local storage
   - Use token for subsequent API calls

2. **Token Validation**:
   - Check token expiration
   - Refresh token when needed
   - Clear token on logout

3. **Protected Routes**:
   - Verify token before accessing protected pages
   - Redirect to login if unauthorized

## The `import` Statements

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts
import { DummyUser, DummyUsersResponse } from "@/lib/interfaces/user";
import { API_BASE_URL } from ".";
```

## `fetchRandomUser` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Fetches a random user from the DummyUser API.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<DummyUser>} A promise that resolves to a randomly selected DummyUser object.
 */
export async function fetchRandomUser(): Promise<DummyUser> {
  try {
    // Get a random user ID between 1 and 100
    const randomId = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100) + 1;
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/users/${randomId}`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch user: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const user: DummyUser = await response.json();
    return user;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching random user:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates random data generation and mathematical operations for API testing:

###### Random Number Generation:

- `Math.random()` generates a decimal between 0 and 1 (exclusive)
- `Math.random() * 100` scales the range to 0-100 (exclusive)
- `Math.floor()` rounds down to get integers: 0, 1, 2, ..., 99
- Adding `+ 1` shifts the range to 1-100, matching the API's user ID range

###### Mathematical Concepts:

- This approach ensures uniform distribution across all possible user IDs
- The formula `Math.floor(Math.random() * max) + min` is a standard pattern for generating random integers within a range
- Understanding this pattern is crucial for creating test data and simulations

###### API Resource Access Pattern:

- Uses the RESTful pattern: `GET /users/{id}` to fetch a specific user
- The random ID generation makes this function useful for demos, testing, and prototyping
- This pattern is common in development environments where you need sample data

###### Error Handling Strategy:

- Follows the standard async/await error handling pattern used throughout the API layer
- Logs errors for debugging while re-throwing them for upstream handling
- The function can fail if the random ID doesn't exist, but DummyJSON typically has users 1-100

###### Use Cases in Development:

- Creating demo accounts for presentations
- Populating test environments with varied user data
- Building user onboarding flows that show different user types
- Testing UI components with diverse user profiles

<BackToTop />

## `fetchUsers` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Asynchronously fetches a list of users from the API.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<Array>} A promise that resolves to an array of user objects.
 * @throws {Error} Throws an error if the fetch operation fails.
 */
export async function fetchUsers(
  limit: number = 10,
  skip: number = 0
): Promise<DummyUsersResponse> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(
      `${API_BASE_URL}/users?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
    );

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch users: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const data: DummyUsersResponse = await response.json();
    return data;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching users:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function showcases pagination implementation and administrative data access patterns:

###### Default Parameters for Flexibility:

- `limit: number = 10` provides a sensible default for page size
- `skip: number = 0` defaults to starting from the beginning
- Default parameters make the function easy to use while allowing customization when needed

###### Pagination Mathematics:

- `limit` controls how many users to return (page size)
- `skip` determines how many users to bypass (for calculating page offsets)
- Formula for page navigation: `skip = (pageNumber - 1) * limit`
- Example: Page 3 with 10 users per page → `skip = (3-1) * 10 = 20`

###### Query Parameter Construction:

- Uses template literals to build query string: `?limit=${limit}&skip=${skip}`
- This follows standard REST API conventions for pagination
- Query parameters are more RESTful than path parameters for optional modifiers

###### Administrative Use Cases:

- User management dashboards that display user lists
- Admin panels that need to browse through all system users
- Bulk operations that process users in batches
- Reporting features that analyze user demographics

###### Response Structure Handling:

- Returns `DummyUsersResponse` which typically includes:
  - `users`: Array of user objects
  - `total`: Total number of users in the system
  - `skip`: Current skip value (for pagination state)
  - `limit`: Current limit value (for pagination state)

###### Performance Considerations:

- Pagination prevents memory overload when dealing with large user bases
- Allows for responsive UI that loads quickly even with thousands of users
- Enables infinite scroll or traditional pagination UI patterns

<BackToTop />

## `fetchDemoCredentials` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Asynchronously fetches demo credentials for users.
 *
 * @returns {Promise<{ ... }>} A promise that resolves to an object containing demo credentials.
 */
export async function fetchDemoCredentials(): Promise<{
  username: string;
  password: string;
  fullName: string;
}> {
  try {
    const user = await fetchRandomUser();
    return {
      username: user.username,
      password: user.password,
      fullName: `${user.firstName} ${user.lastName}`,
    };
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching demo credentials:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function demonstrates function composition and data transformation for demo purposes:

###### Function Composition Pattern:

- Builds complex functionality by combining simpler functions
- `fetchRandomUser()` provides the base data, this function transforms it
- This is a key principle in functional programming: compose small, focused functions

###### Data Transformation and Extraction:

- Takes a complete user object and extracts only the needed fields
- Creates a new object structure tailored for authentication demo purposes
- String interpolation with template literals: `${user.firstName} ${user.lastName}`

###### Demo and Testing Utilities:

- Provides realistic demo credentials for presentations and testing
- Eliminates the need to hardcode demo accounts
- Useful for onboarding flows where users can try the system without creating accounts

###### Object Destructuring Alternative:

- Could be refactored using destructuring: `const { username, password, firstName, lastName } = user`
- Current approach is more explicit about which fields are being used
- Both patterns are valid; choice depends on team preferences and readability

###### Error Propagation Strategy:

- Catches errors from `fetchRandomUser()` and re-throws them with additional context
- This provides a clear error trail: if demo credentials fail, you know it's likely a user API issue
- The error handling preserves the original error while adding contextual information

###### Use Cases in Development:

- Login form demos where you need working credentials
- Tutorial walkthrough where users need example accounts
- QA testing with varied user profiles
- Developer documentation that includes working examples

<BackToTop />

## `fetchUserById` Function

```typescript
// src/api/users.ts

/**
 * Fetches a user by their unique ID from the API.
 *
 * @param userId - The unique identifier of the user to fetch.
 * @returns A promise that resolves to a DummyUser object containing the user's data.
 */
export async function fetchUserById(userId: number): Promise<DummyUser> {
  try {
    const response = await fetch(`${API_BASE_URL}/users/${userId}`);

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(`Failed to fetch user: ${response.statusText}`);
    }

    const user: DummyUser = await response.json();
    return user;
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching user by ID:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

This function represents the fundamental pattern for individual resource retrieval:

###### RESTful Resource Access:

- Follows the standard REST pattern: `GET /users/{id}` for fetching a specific user
- Uses path parameters (not query parameters) for resource identification
- This is the most common pattern in REST APIs for accessing individual resources

###### Type-Safe Parameter Handling:

- Accepts `userId: number` ensuring only valid numeric IDs are passed
- TypeScript's type system prevents common errors like passing strings or undefined values
- The parameter name `userId` is descriptive and self-documenting

###### Direct Resource Mapping:

- The API response maps directly to the `DummyUser` interface
- No additional processing or transformation needed
- This simplicity makes the function fast and predictable

###### Error Handling Consistency:

- Uses the same error handling pattern as other functions in the module
- Consistent error messages help with debugging and logging
- The error context includes the specific operation being performed

###### Common Use Cases:

- User profile pages that display detailed user information
- Authentication systems that need to verify user details
- Admin panels that need to look up specific users
- Any component that needs to display user-specific information

###### Performance Characteristics:

- Fast and lightweight - single API call with minimal processing
- Cacheable at the HTTP level (GET requests can be cached)
- Suitable for frequent calls in user interfaces
- No pagination complexity since it returns a single resource

<BackToTop />

## Next Steps

How about that home page now? It's about time to see all your hard work pay off! In the next section, we will implement the home page of our e-commerce platform. This will include displaying featured products, categories, and other key information to give users a great first impression.

Head over to [Home Page](/ecommerce-platform/creating-the-pages/home-page) to see your e-commerce platform in action!
