src/app/page.mdx, before:

import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";
import Button from "../components/Button.tsx";
import Guides from "../components/Guides";
import Resources from "../components/Resources";
import { 
  FaChevronRight, 
  FaBook, 
  FaTools, 
  FaEye, 
  FaCode, 
  FaPaintBrush, 
  FaHeart, 
  FaBolt, 
  FaDatabase, 
  FaWpforms, 
  FaRocket, 
  FaCheckCircle, 
  FaFilter, 
  FaLayerGroup, 
  FaReact, 
  FaTrophy 
} from "react-icons/fa";
import { SiJquery } from "react-icons/si";


export const chapters = [
  {
    href: "/overview",
    title: "Chapter 1: Introduction",
    description: "Web development overview, vocabulary, and best practices.",
    bgColor: "emerald",
    icon: FaBook,
    ctaText: "Start Here"
  },
  {
    href: "/developer-tools-and-resources",
    title: "Chapter 1.5: Dev Tools",
    description: "Essential tools, Git, command line, and deployment.",
    bgColor: "orange",
    icon: FaTools,
    ctaText: "Get Tools"
  },
  {
    href: "/seo-accessibility",
    title: "Chapter 2: SEO & Accessibility",
    description: "Web standards, accessibility, and SEO fundamentals.",
    bgColor: "teal",
    icon: FaEye,
    ctaText: "Learn Standards"
  },
  {
    href: "/intro-to-html",
    title: "Chapter 4: HTML",
    description: "Semantic HTML, document structure, and elements.",
    bgColor: "blue",
    icon: FaCode,
    ctaText: "Build Structure"
  },
  {
    href: "/intro-to-css",
    title: "Chapter 5: CSS",
    description: "Styling, layouts, responsive design, and frameworks.",
    bgColor: "purple",
    icon: FaPaintBrush,
    ctaText: "Style Everything"
  },
  {
    href: "/UX-UI-Design",
    title: "Chapter 5.5: UX/UI",
    description: "Design principles, wireframing, and typography.",
    bgColor: "pink",
    icon: FaHeart,
    ctaText: "Design Better"
  },
  {
    href: "/intro-to-javascript",
    title: "Chapter 6: JavaScript",
    description: "Programming fundamentals, ES6+, and browser APIs.",
    bgColor: "yellow",
    icon: FaBolt,
    ctaText: "Add Interactivity"
  },
  {
    href: "/document-object-model",
    title: "Chapter 7: DOM",
    description: "Document manipulation, events, and browser APIs.",
    bgColor: "indigo",
    icon: FaDatabase,
    ctaText: "Control the Page"
  },
  {
    href: "/forms",
    title: "Chapter 8: Forms",
    description: "HTML forms, validation, and form handling.",
    bgColor: "green",
    icon: FaWpforms,
    ctaText: "Collect Data"
  },
  {
    href: "/jQuery",
    title: "Chapter 9: jQuery",
    description: "DOM manipulation, events, and AJAX with jQuery.",
    bgColor: "cyan",
    icon: SiJquery,
    ctaText: "Simplify DOM"
  },
  {
    href: "/performance",
    title: "Chapter 10: Advanced",
    description: "Performance, security, APIs, and modern features.",
    bgColor: "red",
    icon: FaRocket,
    ctaText: "Go Advanced"
  },
  {
    href: "/quiz-app",
    title: "Chapter 11: Quiz App",
    description: "Build a complete interactive quiz application.",
    bgColor: "emerald",
    icon: FaCheckCircle,
    ctaText: "Build Project"
  },
  {
    href: "/frameworks",
    title: "Chapter 12: Frameworks",
    description: "Modern frameworks, libraries, and build tools.",
    bgColor: "violet",
    icon: FaFilter,
    ctaText: "Scale Up"
  },
  {
    href: "/typescript",
    title: "Chapter 13: TypeScript",
    description: "Type-safe JavaScript for large applications.",
    bgColor: "slate",
    icon: FaLayerGroup,
    ctaText: "Add Types"
  },
  {
    href: "/react",
    title: "Chapter 14: React",
    description: "Component-based UI library and modern patterns.",
    bgColor: "sky",
    icon: FaReact,
    ctaText: "Build Components"
  },
  {
    href: "/website-portfolio",
    title: "Chapter 15: Portfolio",
    description: "Create your professional portfolio website.",
    bgColor: "amber",
    icon: FaTrophy,
    ctaText: "Show Your Work"
  }
];

# Welcome to Web Development!

Your complete journey from beginner to proficient web developer. This comprehensive 16-chapter course will take you from absolute beginner to building real-world applications with modern frameworks.

## About This Course

In today's fast-paced, information-rich world, learning web development can feel overwhelming. With countless resources, tutorials, and technologies available, it's easy to suffer from choice overload and not know where to start.

As someone deeply immersed in the tech industry, I understand this challenge firsthand. The constant evolution of technology means that developers are inundated with choices and must navigate a sea of information to find what truly matters.

**That's precisely what this course aims to solve.** Inside, you'll find a carefully curated and structured learning path that cuts through the noise, saving you time and focusing on what's truly valuable for becoming a successful front-end developer.

This isn't just another collection of tutorials - it's a comprehensive guide that takes you step-by-step through everything you need to know, from basic HTML to advanced React applications.

## Complete Learning Path

Follow our structured 16-chapter curriculum designed to build your skills progressively:

<div className="gap-6 grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-4 mt-8">
  {chapters.map((chapter) => {
    const IconComponent = chapter.icon;
    return (
      <Link
        key={chapter.href}
        href={chapter.href}
        className="group flex flex-col justify-between bg-white dark:bg-gray-800 hover:shadow-lg p-6 border border-gray-200 dark:border-gray-700 rounded-lg no-underline transition-shadow"
      >
        <div className={`flex items-center justify-center bg-${chapter.bgColor}-100 dark:bg-${chapter.bgColor}-900 mb-4 rounded-lg h-12 w-12`}>
          <IconComponent className={`h-6 w-6 text-${chapter.bgColor}-600 dark:text-${chapter.bgColor}-400`} />
        </div>
        <div>
          <h3 className="mb-2 font-semibold text-gray-900 text-lg dark:text-white">
            {chapter.title}
          </h3>
          <p className="mb-4 text-gray-600 text-sm dark:text-gray-400">
            {chapter.description}
          </p>
        </div>
        <p className={`font-medium text-${chapter.bgColor}-600 text-sm hover:text-${chapter.bgColor}-800 dark:hover:text-${chapter.bgColor}-300 dark:text-${chapter.bgColor}-400`}>
          {chapter.ctaText}{" "}
          <FaChevronRight className="inline duration-300 group-hover:translate-x-2 ease-in-out" />
        </p>
      </Link>
    );
  })}
</div>

##

## Course Curriculum

This comprehensive web development course covers everything you need to become a proficient front-end developer:

##

### 🎯 Fundamentals

- **Web Development Overview** - Understanding the role of front-end developers
- **HTML Foundations** - Semantic HTML, document structure, elements and attributes
- **CSS Styling** - Layouts, responsive design, and modern CSS techniques
- **JavaScript Basics** - Core programming concepts and DOM manipulation
- **Best Practices** - Accessibility, SEO, and coding standards

### 🛠️ Essential Tools & Technologies

- **Developer Tools** - Browser DevTools, command line, Git & GitHub
- **Package Managers** - npm and modern development workflows
- **Frameworks & Libraries** - jQuery, React ecosystem, and popular tools
- **APIs & Data** - Working with APIs and content delivery networks
- **Storage Solutions** - Client-side and server-side data management

### 🎨 Design & User Experience

- **UX/UI Principles** - Design fundamentals and user-centered thinking
- **Typography & Visual Design** - Creating beautiful and readable interfaces
- **Design Trends** - Modern web design patterns and techniques
- **Wireframing** - Planning and prototyping user interfaces

### 🚀 Hands-On Projects

- **Quiz Application** - Interactive JavaScript project with multiple parts
- **Portfolio Website** - Professional website showcasing your skills
- **Real-World Applications** - Building complete, functional web applications

### ⚡ Advanced Topics

- **React & Next.js** - Modern component-based development
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe JavaScript for larger applications
- **State Management** - Managing complex application data
- **Performance & Optimization** - Building fast, efficient websites

## Why Learn Web Development?

Web development is one of the most in-demand and rewarding careers in technology. This course prepares you for success by covering:

- 💼 **Career Opportunities**: High-demand skills with excellent job prospects
- 🎨 **Creative Expression**: Combine technical skills with design and user experience
- 🌐 **Global Impact**: Build applications used by people worldwide
- 📱 **Versatile Skills**: Create websites, web apps, and mobile applications
- 🚀 **Continuous Growth**: Always learning new technologies and techniques
- 💡 **Problem Solving**: Turn ideas into functional, interactive experiences

## Getting Started

Ready to begin your web development journey? Here's how to get the most out of this course:

1. **Start with the Basics** - Begin with the [Overview](/overview) to understand web development fundamentals
2. **Learn HTML First** - Master semantic HTML and document structure
3. **Add CSS Styling** - Learn to create beautiful, responsive designs
4. **Add JavaScript** - Bring interactivity and dynamic behavior to your sites
5. **Build Projects** - Apply your skills with hands-on coding projects
6. **Explore Advanced Topics** - Dive into modern frameworks and tools

Each section builds upon the previous one, so we recommend following the curriculum in order for the best learning experience.

##

## Ready to Start?

Begin your web development journey today! Whether you're completely new to programming or looking to enhance your skills, this course will guide you from beginner to proficient developer.

<div className="not-prose">
  <Button href="/overview" variant="text" arrow="right">
    Start Learning Web Development
  </Button>
</div>

<Guides />

<Resources />

Commit message:

feat: add Chapter 16: Advanced Projects to the curriculum and update course description to reflect 17 chapters

src/app/page.mdx, after:

import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";
import Button from "../components/Button.tsx";
import Guides from "../components/Guides";
import Resources from "../components/Resources";
import { 
  FaChevronRight, 
  FaBook, 
  FaTools, 
  FaEye, 
  FaCode, 
  FaPaintBrush, 
  FaHeart, 
  FaBolt, 
  FaDatabase, 
  FaWpforms, 
  FaRocket, 
  FaCheckCircle, 
  FaFilter, 
  FaLayerGroup, 
  FaReact, 
  FaTrophy 
} from "react-icons/fa";
import { SiJquery } from "react-icons/si";


export const chapters = [
  {
    href: "/overview",
    title: "Chapter 1: Introduction",
    description: "Web development overview, vocabulary, and best practices.",
    bgColor: "emerald",
    icon: FaBook,
    ctaText: "Start Here"
  },
  {
    href: "/developer-tools-and-resources",
    title: "Chapter 1.5: Dev Tools",
    description: "Essential tools, Git, command line, and deployment.",
    bgColor: "orange",
    icon: FaTools,
    ctaText: "Get Tools"
  },
  {
    href: "/seo-accessibility",
    title: "Chapter 2: SEO & Accessibility",
    description: "Web standards, accessibility, and SEO fundamentals.",
    bgColor: "teal",
    icon: FaEye,
    ctaText: "Learn Standards"
  },
  {
    href: "/intro-to-html",
    title: "Chapter 4: HTML",
    description: "Semantic HTML, document structure, and elements.",
    bgColor: "blue",
    icon: FaCode,
    ctaText: "Build Structure"
  },
  {
    href: "/intro-to-css",
    title: "Chapter 5: CSS",
    description: "Styling, layouts, responsive design, and frameworks.",
    bgColor: "purple",
    icon: FaPaintBrush,
    ctaText: "Style Everything"
  },
  {
    href: "/UX-UI-Design",
    title: "Chapter 5.5: UX/UI",
    description: "Design principles, wireframing, and typography.",
    bgColor: "pink",
    icon: FaHeart,
    ctaText: "Design Better"
  },
  {
    href: "/intro-to-javascript",
    title: "Chapter 6: JavaScript",
    description: "Programming fundamentals, ES6+, and browser APIs.",
    bgColor: "yellow",
    icon: FaBolt,
    ctaText: "Add Interactivity"
  },
  {
    href: "/document-object-model",
    title: "Chapter 7: DOM",
    description: "Document manipulation, events, and browser APIs.",
    bgColor: "indigo",
    icon: FaDatabase,
    ctaText: "Control the Page"
  },
  {
    href: "/forms",
    title: "Chapter 8: Forms",
    description: "HTML forms, validation, and form handling.",
    bgColor: "green",
    icon: FaWpforms,
    ctaText: "Collect Data"
  },
  {
    href: "/jQuery",
    title: "Chapter 9: jQuery",
    description: "DOM manipulation, events, and AJAX with jQuery.",
    bgColor: "cyan",
    icon: SiJquery,
    ctaText: "Simplify DOM"
  },
  {
    href: "/performance",
    title: "Chapter 10: Advanced",
    description: "Performance, security, APIs, and modern features.",
    bgColor: "red",
    icon: FaRocket,
    ctaText: "Go Advanced"
  },
  {
    href: "/quiz-app",
    title: "Chapter 11: Quiz App",
    description: "Build a complete interactive quiz application.",
    bgColor: "emerald",
    icon: FaCheckCircle,
    ctaText: "Build Project"
  },
  {
    href: "/frameworks",
    title: "Chapter 12: Frameworks",
    description: "Modern frameworks, libraries, and build tools.",
    bgColor: "violet",
    icon: FaFilter,
    ctaText: "Scale Up"
  },
  {
    href: "/typescript",
    title: "Chapter 13: TypeScript",
    description: "Type-safe JavaScript for large applications.",
    bgColor: "slate",
    icon: FaLayerGroup,
    ctaText: "Add Types"
  },
  {
    href: "/react",
    title: "Chapter 14: React",
    description: "Component-based UI library and modern patterns.",
    bgColor: "sky",
    icon: FaReact,
    ctaText: "Build Components"
  },
  {
    href: "/website-portfolio",
    title: "Chapter 15: Portfolio",
    description: "Create your professional portfolio website.",
    bgColor: "amber",
    icon: FaTrophy,
    ctaText: "Show Your Work"
  },
  {
    href: "/advanced-projects",
    title: "Chapter 16: Advanced Projects",
    description: "Complex real-world applications and professional development.",
    bgColor: "rose",
    icon: FaRocket,
    ctaText: "Build Advanced Apps"
  }
];

# Welcome to Web Development!

Your complete journey from beginner to proficient web developer. This comprehensive 17-chapter course will take you from absolute beginner to building real-world applications with modern frameworks.

## About This Course

In today's fast-paced, information-rich world, learning web development can feel overwhelming. With countless resources, tutorials, and technologies available, it's easy to suffer from choice overload and not know where to start.

As someone deeply immersed in the tech industry, I understand this challenge firsthand. The constant evolution of technology means that developers are inundated with choices and must navigate a sea of information to find what truly matters.

**That's precisely what this course aims to solve.** Inside, you'll find a carefully curated and structured learning path that cuts through the noise, saving you time and focusing on what's truly valuable for becoming a successful front-end developer.

This isn't just another collection of tutorials - it's a comprehensive guide that takes you step-by-step through everything you need to know, from basic HTML to advanced React applications.

## Complete Learning Path

Follow our structured 17-chapter curriculum designed to build your skills progressively:

<div className="gap-6 grid grid-cols-1 md:grid-cols-2 lg:grid-cols-4 mt-8">
  {chapters.map((chapter) => {
    const IconComponent = chapter.icon;
    return (
      <Link
        key={chapter.href}
        href={chapter.href}
        className="group flex flex-col justify-between bg-white dark:bg-gray-800 hover:shadow-lg p-6 border border-gray-200 dark:border-gray-700 rounded-lg no-underline transition-shadow"
      >
        <div className={`flex items-center justify-center bg-${chapter.bgColor}-100 dark:bg-${chapter.bgColor}-900 mb-4 rounded-lg h-12 w-12`}>
          <IconComponent className={`h-6 w-6 text-${chapter.bgColor}-600 dark:text-${chapter.bgColor}-400`} />
        </div>
        <div>
          <h3 className="mb-2 font-semibold text-gray-900 text-lg dark:text-white">
            {chapter.title}
          </h3>
          <p className="mb-4 text-gray-600 text-sm dark:text-gray-400">
            {chapter.description}
          </p>
        </div>
        <p className={`font-medium text-${chapter.bgColor}-600 text-sm hover:text-${chapter.bgColor}-800 dark:hover:text-${chapter.bgColor}-300 dark:text-${chapter.bgColor}-400`}>
          {chapter.ctaText}{" "}
          <FaChevronRight className="inline duration-300 group-hover:translate-x-2 ease-in-out" />
        </p>
      </Link>
    );
  })}
</div>

##

## Course Curriculum

This comprehensive web development course covers everything you need to become a proficient front-end developer:

##

### 🎯 Fundamentals

- **Web Development Overview** - Understanding the role of front-end developers
- **HTML Foundations** - Semantic HTML, document structure, elements and attributes
- **CSS Styling** - Layouts, responsive design, and modern CSS techniques
- **JavaScript Basics** - Core programming concepts and DOM manipulation
- **Best Practices** - Accessibility, SEO, and coding standards

### 🛠️ Essential Tools & Technologies

- **Developer Tools** - Browser DevTools, command line, Git & GitHub
- **Package Managers** - npm and modern development workflows
- **Frameworks & Libraries** - jQuery, React ecosystem, and popular tools
- **APIs & Data** - Working with APIs and content delivery networks
- **Storage Solutions** - Client-side and server-side data management

### 🎨 Design & User Experience

- **UX/UI Principles** - Design fundamentals and user-centered thinking
- **Typography & Visual Design** - Creating beautiful and readable interfaces
- **Design Trends** - Modern web design patterns and techniques
- **Wireframing** - Planning and prototyping user interfaces

### 🚀 Hands-On Projects

- **Quiz Application** - Interactive JavaScript project with multiple parts
- **Portfolio Website** - Professional website showcasing your skills
- **Real-World Applications** - Building complete, functional web applications

### ⚡ Advanced Topics

- **React & Next.js** - Modern component-based development
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe JavaScript for larger applications
- **State Management** - Managing complex application data
- **Performance & Optimization** - Building fast, efficient websites

## Why Learn Web Development?

Web development is one of the most in-demand and rewarding careers in technology. This course prepares you for success by covering:

- 💼 **Career Opportunities**: High-demand skills with excellent job prospects
- 🎨 **Creative Expression**: Combine technical skills with design and user experience
- 🌐 **Global Impact**: Build applications used by people worldwide
- 📱 **Versatile Skills**: Create websites, web apps, and mobile applications
- 🚀 **Continuous Growth**: Always learning new technologies and techniques
- 💡 **Problem Solving**: Turn ideas into functional, interactive experiences

## Getting Started

Ready to begin your web development journey? Here's how to get the most out of this course:

1. **Start with the Basics** - Begin with the [Overview](/overview) to understand web development fundamentals
2. **Learn HTML First** - Master semantic HTML and document structure
3. **Add CSS Styling** - Learn to create beautiful, responsive designs
4. **Add JavaScript** - Bring interactivity and dynamic behavior to your sites
5. **Build Projects** - Apply your skills with hands-on coding projects
6. **Explore Advanced Topics** - Dive into modern frameworks and tools

Each section builds upon the previous one, so we recommend following the curriculum in order for the best learning experience.

##

## Ready to Start?

Begin your web development journey today! Whether you're completely new to programming or looking to enhance your skills, this course will guide you from beginner to proficient developer.

<div className="not-prose">
  <Button href="/overview" variant="text" arrow="right">
    Start Learning Web Development
  </Button>
</div>

<Guides />

<Resources />
