src/app/ecommerce-platform/creating-navigation-components/creating-the-dynamic-breadcrumb/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Creating the Breadcrumb Navigation

Now, why a dynamic breadcrumb? Because it allows us to adapt the breadcrumb trail based on the current page context, making it more user-friendly and relevant. This is particularly useful in an e-commerce platform where users navigate through various categories, products, and subcategories.

This will be located in `src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx` and will use `usePathname` from `next/navigation` and `useMemo` to create a dynamic breadcrumb based on the current URL path.

## Table of Contents

## Implementing Utility Functions

Before we get started, let's create a formatting function to handle the URL path segments. These functions will help us convert kebab-case strings to Title Case and capitalize the first letter of each segment and will be located in `src/lib/utils/format.ts`.

##### NOTE

> We will be adding more utility functions to the `src/lib/utils` directory as we progress through the course.

```ts
// src/lib/utils/format.ts

/**
 * Capitalizes the first letter of a string or each string in an array.
 *
 * @param str - The string or array of strings to capitalize.
 * @returns The capitalized string, or a string with each element capitalized if an array is provided.
 */
export function capitalize(str: string | string[]): string {
  if (!str) return str;

  if (Array.isArray(str)) {
    return str.map((s) => capitalize(s)).join(" ");
  }

  return str.charAt(0).toUpperCase() + str.slice(1).toLowerCase();
}

/**
 * Converts a kebab-case string to Title Case.
 *
 * Example:
 *   kebabToTitle('my-example-string') // returns 'My Example String'
 *
 * @param str - The kebab-case string to convert.
 * @returns The converted string in Title Case.
 */
export function kebabToTitle(str: string): string {
  if (!str) return str;

  return str
    .split("-")
    .map((word) => capitalize(word))
    .join(" ");
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **kebabToTitle Function**: This function takes a kebab-case string (like `product-details`) and converts it into a title case string (like `Product Details`). It splits the string by hyphens, capitalizes each word, and then joins them back together with spaces.
- **capitalize Function**: This function capitalizes the first letter of a string and converts the rest to lowercase. It can also handle arrays of strings, capitalizing each element.

## Creating a Dynamic Breadcrumb Component

First, let's make sure we have the necessary imports and setup for our breadcrumb component. We'll use `usePathname` to get the current path and `useMemo` to optimize our breadcrumb generation.

```tsx
// src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx
"use client";

import { ChevronRight, Home, MoreHorizontal } from "lucide-react";
import { usePathname } from "next/navigation";
import React, { JSX, useMemo } from "react";
import {
  Breadcrumb,
  BreadcrumbItem,
  BreadcrumbLink,
  BreadcrumbList,
  BreadcrumbPage,
  BreadcrumbSeparator,
} from "../ui/breadcrumb";
import { cn } from "@/lib/utils";
import { kebabToTitle } from "@/lib/utils/format";

export default function DynamicBreadcrumb(): JSX.Element | null {
  const pathname = usePathname();

  const pathSegments = useMemo(
    () =>
      pathname
        .split("/")
        .filter(Boolean)
        .map((segment) => decodeURIComponent(segment)),
    [pathname]
  );
.
.
.
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **Imports**: We import necessary components and hooks from Next.js and our UI library. The `lucide-react` icons are used for visual elements in the breadcrumb.
- **DynamicBreadcrumb Component**: This is the main component that will render our dynamic breadcrumb.
- **usePathname Hook**: This hook retrieves the current URL path, which we will use to generate the breadcrumb items.
- **useMemo Hook**: We use `useMemo` to optimize the calculation of `pathSegments`, which splits the pathname into an array of segments. This ensures that the breadcrumb updates only when the pathname changes, improving performance.
- **pathSegments Calculation**: The `pathname` is split by slashes, filtered to remove empty segments, and decoded to handle URL encoding. This gives us a clean array of path segments that we can use to build our breadcrumb.

```tsx
// src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx

  // If there are no path segments, return null
  // Don't show breadcrumb on home page
  if (pathname === "/" || pathSegments.length === 0) return null;

  // Detect if this is a 404 page
  const isNotFoundPage = pathSegments.includes("not-found");

  // Format individual breadcrumb segments based on context and position
  const formatSegment = (segment: string, isLast: boolean): string => {
    if (isLast && isNotFoundPage) return "Page Not Found";
    if (segment.length === 2) return kebabToTitle(segment).toUpperCase();
    return kebabToTitle(segment);
  };

  // Build URL href for breadcrumb navigation links
  const buildHref = (index: number): string => {
    return `/${pathSegments.slice(0, index + 1).join("/")}`;
  };

  // Smart collapsing for better UX
  const shouldCollapse = pathSegments.length > 4;
  const displaySegments = shouldCollapse
    ? [pathSegments[0], pathSegments[1], ...pathSegments.slice(-2)]
    : pathSegments;
.
.
.
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **Home Page Check**: We check if the current pathname is the home page (`/`). If it is, we return `null` to avoid rendering the breadcrumb.
- **404 Page Detection**: We check if the breadcrumb is for a 404 page by looking for the segment "not-found". This allows us to customize the breadcrumb text for this specific case.
- **formatSegment Function**: This function formats each segment of the breadcrumb. If it's the last segment and it's a 404 page, it returns "Page Not Found". If the segment is two characters long, it converts it to uppercase; otherwise, it formats it normally using the `kebabToTitle` function.
- **buildHref Function**: This function constructs the href for each breadcrumb item based on its index in the `pathSegments` array. It joins the segments up to the current index to create a valid URL path.
- **Smart Collapsing**: We implement a smart collapsing mechanism to improve user experience. If there are more than four segments, we only display the first two and the last two segments, ensuring that the breadcrumb remains concise while still providing context. This will help users navigate without overwhelming them with too many segments and also make sure that the breadcrumb does not take up too much space on smaller screens.
  <BackToTop />

```tsx
// src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx

  return (
    <div className="z-40 sticky backdrop-blur pt-9 w-full">
      <div className="mx-auto px-4 sm:px-6 lg:px-8 w-full max-w-7xl">
        <div className="flex items-center py-2 md:py-3 min-h-[3rem]">
          <Breadcrumb>
            <BreadcrumbList className="flex items-center font-medium text-sm">
              {/* Home link */}
              <BreadcrumbItem>
                <BreadcrumbLink
                  href="/"
                  className={cn(
                    "group flex items-center gap-2 text-muted-foreground/80",
                    "rounded-lg px-2.5 py-1.5 transition-all duration-200 ease-in-out",
                    "hover:text-foreground "
                  )}
                >
                  <Home className="w-4 h-4 group-hover:text-accent transition-all duration-200 group-hover:scale-120" />
                  <span className="sm:inline hidden font-medium">Home</span>
                </BreadcrumbLink>
              </BreadcrumbItem>

              {/* Show ellipsis if path is collapsed */}
              {shouldCollapse && pathSegments.length > 2 && (
                <>
                  <BreadcrumbSeparator className="mx-1">
                    <ChevronRight className="w-3.5 h-3.5 text-muted-foreground/50" />
                  </BreadcrumbSeparator>
                  <BreadcrumbItem>
                    <div className="flex justify-center items-center rounded-md w-8 h-8 text-muted-foreground/60 hover:text-muted-foreground transition-colors">
                      <MoreHorizontal className="w-4 h-4" />
                    </div>
                  </BreadcrumbItem>
                </>
              )}

              {/* Path segments */}
              {displaySegments.map((segment, index) => {
                const actualIndex =
                  shouldCollapse && index > 1
                    ? pathSegments.length - (displaySegments.length - index)
                    : index;
                const isLast = actualIndex === pathSegments.length - 1;
                const href = buildHref(actualIndex);
                const displayText = formatSegment(segment, isLast);

                return (
                  <React.Fragment key={`${href}-${actualIndex}`}>
                    <BreadcrumbSeparator className="mx-1">
                      <ChevronRight className="w-3.5 h-3.5 text-muted-foreground/50 transition-colors" />
                    </BreadcrumbSeparator>

                    <BreadcrumbItem className="flex items-center">
                      {isLast ? (
                        <BreadcrumbPage
                          className={cn(
                            "max-w-[8rem] truncate font-semibold text-foreground sm:max-w-none",
                            "rounded-lg bg-primary/8 px-2.5 py-1.5 ring-1 ring-primary/20"
                          )}
                        >
                          {displayText}
                        </BreadcrumbPage>
                      ) : (
                        <BreadcrumbLink
                          href={href}
                          className={cn(
                            "max-w-[6rem] truncate text-muted-foreground/80 sm:max-w-none",
                            "rounded-lg px-2.5 py-1.5 font-medium transition-all duration-200 ease-in-out",
                            "hover:text-foreground hover:underline decoration-fancy decoration-2 underline-offset-2",
                            "focus:outline-none focus:ring-2 focus:ring-primary/20 focus:ring-offset-2"
                          )}
                        >
                          {displayText}
                        </BreadcrumbLink>
                      )}
                    </BreadcrumbItem>
                  </React.Fragment>
                );
              })}
            </BreadcrumbList>
          </Breadcrumb>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **Breadcrumb Structure**: We use the `Breadcrumb`, `BreadcrumbList`, `BreadcrumbItem`, `BreadcrumbLink`, `BreadcrumbPage`, and `BreadcrumbSeparator` components to create the breadcrumb structure. This provides a semantic and accessible way to represent the breadcrumb navigation.
- **Home Link**: The first item in the breadcrumb is a link to the home page, styled with an icon and text.
- **Ellipsis for Collapsed Paths**: If the path is collapsed, we show an ellipsis (`MoreHorizontal` icon) to indicate that there are more segments in the path. This helps keep the breadcrumb concise while still providing context.
- **Path Segments**: We map over the `displaySegments` array to create breadcrumb items for each segment. Each segment is formatted using the `formatSegment` function, and the href is built using the `buildHref` function. The last segment is rendered as a `BreadcrumbPage` to indicate that it is the current page, while the others are rendered as `BreadcrumbLink` components for navigation.
- **Styling**: The breadcrumb items are styled with Tailwind CSS classes to ensure a consistent look and feel. The last segment is highlighted with a different background color to indicate that it is the current page.
- **Accessibility**: The breadcrumb is designed to be accessible, with appropriate ARIA roles and properties. The `BreadcrumbLink` and `BreadcrumbPage` components ensure that screen readers can interpret the breadcrumb correctly.

## Next Steps

Now that we have our dynamic breadcrumb component set up, we can integrate it into our e-commerce platform's layout. This will provide users with a clear navigation path as they explore different categories and products.

It's time to enhance our coding process by implementing our utility functions and necessary constants for validation. This will help us maintain clean and consistent data across our e-commerce platform.

Head over to [Validation Constants](/ecommerce-platform/utility-functions-and-validation-constants/validation-constants). This will help us set up the necessary validation constants for our e-commerce platform, ensuring that our data is clean and consistent.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

Refactor navigation component documentation to clarify next steps for defining e-commerce platform structure and interfaces

src/app/ecommerce-platform/creating-navigation-components/creating-the-dynamic-breadcrumb/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Creating the Breadcrumb Navigation

Now, why a dynamic breadcrumb? Because it allows us to adapt the breadcrumb trail based on the current page context, making it more user-friendly and relevant. This is particularly useful in an e-commerce platform where users navigate through various categories, products, and subcategories.

This will be located in `src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx` and will use `usePathname` from `next/navigation` and `useMemo` to create a dynamic breadcrumb based on the current URL path.

## Table of Contents

## Implementing Utility Functions

Before we get started, let's create a formatting function to handle the URL path segments. These functions will help us convert kebab-case strings to Title Case and capitalize the first letter of each segment and will be located in `src/lib/utils/format.ts`.

##### NOTE

> We will be adding more utility functions to the `src/lib/utils` directory as we progress through the course.

```ts
// src/lib/utils/format.ts

/**
 * Capitalizes the first letter of a string or each string in an array.
 *
 * @param str - The string or array of strings to capitalize.
 * @returns The capitalized string, or a string with each element capitalized if an array is provided.
 */
export function capitalize(str: string | string[]): string {
  if (!str) return str;

  if (Array.isArray(str)) {
    return str.map((s) => capitalize(s)).join(" ");
  }

  return str.charAt(0).toUpperCase() + str.slice(1).toLowerCase();
}

/**
 * Converts a kebab-case string to Title Case.
 *
 * Example:
 *   kebabToTitle('my-example-string') // returns 'My Example String'
 *
 * @param str - The kebab-case string to convert.
 * @returns The converted string in Title Case.
 */
export function kebabToTitle(str: string): string {
  if (!str) return str;

  return str
    .split("-")
    .map((word) => capitalize(word))
    .join(" ");
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **kebabToTitle Function**: This function takes a kebab-case string (like `product-details`) and converts it into a title case string (like `Product Details`). It splits the string by hyphens, capitalizes each word, and then joins them back together with spaces.
- **capitalize Function**: This function capitalizes the first letter of a string and converts the rest to lowercase. It can also handle arrays of strings, capitalizing each element.

## Creating a Dynamic Breadcrumb Component

First, let's make sure we have the necessary imports and setup for our breadcrumb component. We'll use `usePathname` to get the current path and `useMemo` to optimize our breadcrumb generation.

```tsx
// src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx
"use client";

import { ChevronRight, Home, MoreHorizontal } from "lucide-react";
import { usePathname } from "next/navigation";
import React, { JSX, useMemo } from "react";
import {
  Breadcrumb,
  BreadcrumbItem,
  BreadcrumbLink,
  BreadcrumbList,
  BreadcrumbPage,
  BreadcrumbSeparator,
} from "../ui/breadcrumb";
import { cn } from "@/lib/utils";
import { kebabToTitle } from "@/lib/utils/format";

export default function DynamicBreadcrumb(): JSX.Element | null {
  const pathname = usePathname();

  const pathSegments = useMemo(
    () =>
      pathname
        .split("/")
        .filter(Boolean)
        .map((segment) => decodeURIComponent(segment)),
    [pathname]
  );
.
.
.
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **Imports**: We import necessary components and hooks from Next.js and our UI library. The `lucide-react` icons are used for visual elements in the breadcrumb.
- **DynamicBreadcrumb Component**: This is the main component that will render our dynamic breadcrumb.
- **usePathname Hook**: This hook retrieves the current URL path, which we will use to generate the breadcrumb items.
- **useMemo Hook**: We use `useMemo` to optimize the calculation of `pathSegments`, which splits the pathname into an array of segments. This ensures that the breadcrumb updates only when the pathname changes, improving performance.
- **pathSegments Calculation**: The `pathname` is split by slashes, filtered to remove empty segments, and decoded to handle URL encoding. This gives us a clean array of path segments that we can use to build our breadcrumb.

```tsx
// src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx

  // If there are no path segments, return null
  // Don't show breadcrumb on home page
  if (pathname === "/" || pathSegments.length === 0) return null;

  // Detect if this is a 404 page
  const isNotFoundPage = pathSegments.includes("not-found");

  // Format individual breadcrumb segments based on context and position
  const formatSegment = (segment: string, isLast: boolean): string => {
    if (isLast && isNotFoundPage) return "Page Not Found";
    if (segment.length === 2) return kebabToTitle(segment).toUpperCase();
    return kebabToTitle(segment);
  };

  // Build URL href for breadcrumb navigation links
  const buildHref = (index: number): string => {
    return `/${pathSegments.slice(0, index + 1).join("/")}`;
  };

  // Smart collapsing for better UX
  const shouldCollapse = pathSegments.length > 4;
  const displaySegments = shouldCollapse
    ? [pathSegments[0], pathSegments[1], ...pathSegments.slice(-2)]
    : pathSegments;
.
.
.
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **Home Page Check**: We check if the current pathname is the home page (`/`). If it is, we return `null` to avoid rendering the breadcrumb.
- **404 Page Detection**: We check if the breadcrumb is for a 404 page by looking for the segment "not-found". This allows us to customize the breadcrumb text for this specific case.
- **formatSegment Function**: This function formats each segment of the breadcrumb. If it's the last segment and it's a 404 page, it returns "Page Not Found". If the segment is two characters long, it converts it to uppercase; otherwise, it formats it normally using the `kebabToTitle` function.
- **buildHref Function**: This function constructs the href for each breadcrumb item based on its index in the `pathSegments` array. It joins the segments up to the current index to create a valid URL path.
- **Smart Collapsing**: We implement a smart collapsing mechanism to improve user experience. If there are more than four segments, we only display the first two and the last two segments, ensuring that the breadcrumb remains concise while still providing context. This will help users navigate without overwhelming them with too many segments and also make sure that the breadcrumb does not take up too much space on smaller screens.
  <BackToTop />

```tsx
// src/components/navigation/breadcrumb-dynamic.tsx

  return (
    <div className="z-40 sticky backdrop-blur pt-9 w-full">
      <div className="mx-auto px-4 sm:px-6 lg:px-8 w-full max-w-7xl">
        <div className="flex items-center py-2 md:py-3 min-h-[3rem]">
          <Breadcrumb>
            <BreadcrumbList className="flex items-center font-medium text-sm">
              {/* Home link */}
              <BreadcrumbItem>
                <BreadcrumbLink
                  href="/"
                  className={cn(
                    "group flex items-center gap-2 text-muted-foreground/80",
                    "rounded-lg px-2.5 py-1.5 transition-all duration-200 ease-in-out",
                    "hover:text-foreground "
                  )}
                >
                  <Home className="w-4 h-4 group-hover:text-accent transition-all duration-200 group-hover:scale-120" />
                  <span className="sm:inline hidden font-medium">Home</span>
                </BreadcrumbLink>
              </BreadcrumbItem>

              {/* Show ellipsis if path is collapsed */}
              {shouldCollapse && pathSegments.length > 2 && (
                <>
                  <BreadcrumbSeparator className="mx-1">
                    <ChevronRight className="w-3.5 h-3.5 text-muted-foreground/50" />
                  </BreadcrumbSeparator>
                  <BreadcrumbItem>
                    <div className="flex justify-center items-center rounded-md w-8 h-8 text-muted-foreground/60 hover:text-muted-foreground transition-colors">
                      <MoreHorizontal className="w-4 h-4" />
                    </div>
                  </BreadcrumbItem>
                </>
              )}

              {/* Path segments */}
              {displaySegments.map((segment, index) => {
                const actualIndex =
                  shouldCollapse && index > 1
                    ? pathSegments.length - (displaySegments.length - index)
                    : index;
                const isLast = actualIndex === pathSegments.length - 1;
                const href = buildHref(actualIndex);
                const displayText = formatSegment(segment, isLast);

                return (
                  <React.Fragment key={`${href}-${actualIndex}`}>
                    <BreadcrumbSeparator className="mx-1">
                      <ChevronRight className="w-3.5 h-3.5 text-muted-foreground/50 transition-colors" />
                    </BreadcrumbSeparator>

                    <BreadcrumbItem className="flex items-center">
                      {isLast ? (
                        <BreadcrumbPage
                          className={cn(
                            "max-w-[8rem] truncate font-semibold text-foreground sm:max-w-none",
                            "rounded-lg bg-primary/8 px-2.5 py-1.5 ring-1 ring-primary/20"
                          )}
                        >
                          {displayText}
                        </BreadcrumbPage>
                      ) : (
                        <BreadcrumbLink
                          href={href}
                          className={cn(
                            "max-w-[6rem] truncate text-muted-foreground/80 sm:max-w-none",
                            "rounded-lg px-2.5 py-1.5 font-medium transition-all duration-200 ease-in-out",
                            "hover:text-foreground hover:underline decoration-fancy decoration-2 underline-offset-2",
                            "focus:outline-none focus:ring-2 focus:ring-primary/20 focus:ring-offset-2"
                          )}
                        >
                          {displayText}
                        </BreadcrumbLink>
                      )}
                    </BreadcrumbItem>
                  </React.Fragment>
                );
              })}
            </BreadcrumbList>
          </Breadcrumb>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
```

##### Explanation of the Code

- **Breadcrumb Structure**: We use the `Breadcrumb`, `BreadcrumbList`, `BreadcrumbItem`, `BreadcrumbLink`, `BreadcrumbPage`, and `BreadcrumbSeparator` components to create the breadcrumb structure. This provides a semantic and accessible way to represent the breadcrumb navigation.
- **Home Link**: The first item in the breadcrumb is a link to the home page, styled with an icon and text.
- **Ellipsis for Collapsed Paths**: If the path is collapsed, we show an ellipsis (`MoreHorizontal` icon) to indicate that there are more segments in the path. This helps keep the breadcrumb concise while still providing context.
- **Path Segments**: We map over the `displaySegments` array to create breadcrumb items for each segment. Each segment is formatted using the `formatSegment` function, and the href is built using the `buildHref` function. The last segment is rendered as a `BreadcrumbPage` to indicate that it is the current page, while the others are rendered as `BreadcrumbLink` components for navigation.
- **Styling**: The breadcrumb items are styled with Tailwind CSS classes to ensure a consistent look and feel. The last segment is highlighted with a different background color to indicate that it is the current page.
- **Accessibility**: The breadcrumb is designed to be accessible, with appropriate ARIA roles and properties. The `BreadcrumbLink` and `BreadcrumbPage` components ensure that screen readers can interpret the breadcrumb correctly.

## Next Steps

Now that we have our dynamic breadcrumb component set up, we can integrate it into our e-commerce platform's layout. This will provide users with a clear navigation path as they explore different categories and products.

Next, we need to start defining the structure of our e-commerce platform, including the product categories, product details, and other essential components. This will help us create a cohesive user experience and ensure that our breadcrumb navigation remains relevant as users navigate through the site.

This will start with [Defining Interfaces for APIs](/ecommerce-platform/connecting-to-the-API/defining-interfaces-for-APIs). This will help us set up the necessary interfaces for our e-commerce platform, ensuring that our data is structured and consistent across the application.

<BackToTop />
