src/app/introduction-to-APIs/API-tools/postman/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";
import Button from "@/components/Button";
import { FaChevronRight } from "react-icons/fa";

# Postman

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

[Postman](https://www.postman.com/) is a comprehensive API development platform that simplifies and accelerates the process of building, testing, and managing APIs. It provides a powerful, user-friendly interface that allows developers to craft HTTP requests, inspect responses in detail, and automate testing workflows—all without writing extensive code upfront. Postman supports every stage of the API lifecycle, making it a go-to solution for backend developers, frontend engineers, QA testers, and DevOps teams alike.

With Postman, you can organize API requests into collections, define and manage environment variables for different development stages, and write custom test scripts in JavaScript to validate responses. Its ability to mock endpoints, monitor API performance, and automatically generate documentation makes it invaluable for both rapid prototyping and long-term maintenance of APIs.

Additionally, Postman fosters collaboration through shared workspaces, version control, and team-based access management. Whether you're debugging a single endpoint or managing a large-scale microservices architecture, Postman offers the flexibility and scalability to support modern, API-first development workflows.

**CAUTION**

> Pricing information is current as of June 2025 and subject to change. Many tools offer free tiers or trial periods.

### Key Features

| Feature                                | Description                                                                                         |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Built-in support for variables**     | Use variables to manage different environments (e.g., development, staging, production) easily.     |
| **Extensive testing capabilities**     | Write tests in JavaScript to validate API responses and automate testing workflows.                 |
| **Support for multiple protocols**     | Work with REST, SOAP, GraphQL, and WebSocket APIs seamlessly.                                       |
| **Generate code snippets**             | Automatically generate code snippets in various programming languages for API requests.             |
| **Write tests in the Postman Sandbox** | Use the Postman Sandbox to write tests and scripts that run before or after requests.               |
| **Mock servers**                       | Create mock servers to simulate API responses for testing and development purposes.                 |
| **Automated testing**                  | Use the Collection Runner to execute multiple requests and run tests in bulk.                       |
| **Environment management**             | Manage different environments with environment variables for easy switching between configurations. |
| **Developer portals**                  | Create and publish API documentation with interactive examples.                                     |
| **API Repository**                     | Store and manage API definitions, including OpenAPI and Swagger specifications.                     |
| **Version control**                    | Track changes to API requests and collections with built-in version control.                        |

### Pricing

| Plan             | Price (per user/month) |
| ---------------- | ---------------------- |
| **Free**         | $0                     |
| **Basic**        | $14                    |
| **Professional** | $29                    |
| **Enterprise**   | $49                    |

## Getting Started with Postman

Postman is available in many forms, including a web app, desktop app, and browser extension. You can choose the version that best fits your workflow.

| Name                                                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [**Web App**](https://identity.getpostman.com/signup?continue=https%3A%2F%2Fgo.postman.co%2Fhome&ref_key=HH3rd3CseVIs5kpDiPKYgY) | Access Postman directly from your web browser without installation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| [**Desktop Agent**](https://www.postman.com/downloads/postman-agent/)                                                            | Download and install the Postman desktop application for a more robust experience with additional features.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [**Browser Extension**](https://www.postman.com/product/postman-interceptor/)                                                    | Use the Postman browser extension for quick access to API testing features directly from your browser, available for Chrome, Safari, Edge, and Firefox.                                                                                                                             |
| [**Postman CLI**](https://learning.postman.com/docs/postman-cli/postman-cli-installation/)                                       | Use the Postman CLI tool for command-line access to Postman features, useful for automation and scripting.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| [**Newman CLI**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/newman)                                                                           | Run Postman collections from the command line using Newman, the official Postman command-line tool.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| [**VSCode Extension**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Postman.postman-for-vscode)                           | Integrate Postman directly into Visual Studio Code for a seamless development experience.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**Postman Canary**](https://www.postman.com/downloads/canary/)                                                                  | Access the latest features and updates in Postman before they are released to the stable version. This is a preview version that may contain experimental features and changes. Available for macOS, Windows 7 and later, Ubuntu 14.04 and later, Fedora 24, and Debian 8 and later |

## Using Postman

### Creating a New Request

- Open Postman
- Click on **Collections** in the left sidebar
- Select the collection where you want to create the request
- Click on the **+** icon next to the collection name to create a new request
- Alternatively, you can:
  - Click on **New** <FaChevronRight className="inline"/> **Request**
  - Enter the request name and select the collection to save it in
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the request
- The request will open in a new tab where you can configure it.

### Creating a New Collection

Collections in Postman allow you to group related API requests together, making it easier to manage and organize your API testing workflows. You can create collections for different projects, environments, or API versions.

- Open Postman
- Click on **Collections** in the left sidebar
- Click on the **+** icon next to the Collections header
- Enter the collection name and description
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the collection
- The collection will appear in the left sidebar, and you can start adding requests to it.

### Creating a New Request in a Collection

- Open Postman
- Click on **Collections** in the left sidebar
- Select the collection where you want to create the request
- Click on the **+** icon next to the collection name to create a new request
- Alternatively, you can:
  - Click on **New** <FaChevronRight className="inline"/> **Request**
  - Enter the request name and select the collection to save it in
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the request
- The request will open in a new tab where you can configure it.

**RESOURCE**

> More about creating and sending API requests in Postman can be found in the [Postman documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/sending-requests/create-requests/create-requests/).

### Setting Up the Request

- Select the request type (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) from the dropdown menu
- Enter the request URL in the address bar
- Add query parameters by clicking on the **Params** tab and entering key-value pairs
- Add headers by clicking on the **Headers** tab and entering key-value pairs
- If the request requires a body (e.g., POST, PUT), switch to the **Body** tab and select the appropriate format (e.g., raw, form-data, x-www-form-urlencoded)
- For raw body, you can choose the format (JSON, XML, text, etc.) from the dropdown menu
- For JSON body, you can enter the data directly in the editor

```json
// Example POST request body
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "email": "john@example.com",
  "role": "developer"
}
```

<BackToTop />

### Authentication

Postman supports various authentication methods to secure API requests. You can configure authentication settings for each request or globally for a collection.

- Navigate to the **Authorization** tab
- Select authentication type and provide necessary credentials:

| Type              | Description                                                  |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **No Auth**       | No authentication required                                   |
| **API Key**       | Use an API key in headers or query parameters                |
| **Bearer Token**  | Use a token in the Authorization header                      |
| **Basic Auth**    | Use username and password for basic authentication           |
| **OAuth 2.0**     | Use OAuth 2.0 for secure access to protected resources       |
| **Digest Auth**   | Use digest authentication for secure access                  |
| **AWS Signature** | Use AWS signature for authenticated requests to AWS services |
| **NTLM**          | Use NTLM authentication for Windows-based services           |
| **Hawk**          | Use Hawk authentication for secure API requests              |
| **Custom**        | Use custom authentication methods as needed                  |
| **OAuth 1.0**     | Use OAuth 1.0 for secure access to protected resources       |

**RESOURCE**

> The authentication method you choose will depend on the API you are working with. Always refer to the API documentation for the required authentication method and credentials. More about authentication can be found in the [Postman documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/sending-requests/authorization/).

### Sending Requests

- Click <Button variant="outline" className="mx-1">Send</Button> to execute
- Things to take note of:

| Field                | Description                                          | Location in UI                                |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Status Code**      | HTTP response status code (e.g., 200, 404)           | Next to the response body                     |
| **Status Message**   | Description of the status code (e.g., OK, Not Found) | Next to the status code                       |
| **Response Time**    | Time taken to receive the response                   | Next to the status code                       |
| **Response Size**    | Size of the response in bytes                        | Next to the response time                     |
| **Response Body**    | The actual data returned by the API                  | In the response body section                  |
| **Response Headers** | Metadata about the response (e.g., content type)     | In the headers tab of the response panel      |
| **Cookies**          | Cookies set by the server                            | In the cookies tab of the response panel      |
| **Test Results**     | Results of any tests run on the response             | In the test results tab of the response panel |

<BackToTop />

### Writing Tests

Writing tests in Postman allows you to automate the validation of API responses. You can use the built-in Postman Sandbox, which provides a JavaScript environment to write tests that run after a request is sent.
You can access the response data using `pm.response` and write assertions to check if the response meets your expectations. Postman provides a rich set of assertion methods to validate various aspects of the response, such as status codes, response time, and specific data fields.

- Navigate to the **Tests** tab
- Write JavaScript code to validate response data

```javascript
// Example test script
pm.test("Status code is 200", function () {
  pm.response.to.have.status(200);
});

pm.test("Response has required fields", function () {
  const responseData = pm.response.json();
  pm.expect(responseData).to.have.property("id");
  pm.expect(responseData).to.have.property("name");
});
```

### Using Environment Variables

**Postman Valut** allows you to manage environment variables, which are key-value pairs that can be used across requests and collections. Environment variables are useful for storing configuration settings, such as API keys, base URLs, and other parameters that may change between different environments (e.g., development, staging, production).

- Create a new environment by clicking on the **Environments** icon in the left sidebar
- Click on the **+** icon to create a new environment
- Enter the environment name and add key-value pairs for variables
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the environment
- To use an environment variable in a request, reference it using the `{{variableName}}` syntax

```javascript
// Example of using an environment variable in a request URL
const baseUrl = pm.environment.get("baseUrl");
pm.request.url = `${baseUrl}/api/users`;
```

### Automating Testing

A collection runner is a feature in Postman that allows you to run a collection of requests with different sets of data. You can use it to automate testing by providing a data file (CSV or JSON) that contains multiple sets of input values for your requests.

- Use the **Collection Runner** to:
  - Execute multiple requests in sequence
  - Run test suites
  - Generate test reports
- Set up data files for parameterized testing

**TIP**

> When working with sensitive data like API keys or passwords, always use environment variables instead of hardcoding them in your requests. This practice enhances security and makes it easier to switch between different environments.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

feat: enhance Katalon Studio and Postman documentation with new sections on getting started, pricing, and key features

src/app/introduction-to-APIs/API-tools/postman/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";
import Button from "@/components/Button";
import { FaChevronRight } from "react-icons/fa";

# Postman

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

[Postman](https://www.postman.com/) is a comprehensive API development platform that simplifies and accelerates the process of building, testing, and managing APIs. It provides a powerful, user-friendly interface that allows developers to craft HTTP requests, inspect responses in detail, and automate testing workflows—all without writing extensive code upfront. Postman supports every stage of the API lifecycle, making it a go-to solution for backend developers, frontend engineers, QA testers, and DevOps teams alike.

With Postman, you can organize API requests into collections, define and manage environment variables for different development stages, and write custom test scripts in JavaScript to validate responses. Its ability to mock endpoints, monitor API performance, and automatically generate documentation makes it invaluable for both rapid prototyping and long-term maintenance of APIs.

Additionally, Postman fosters collaboration through shared workspaces, version control, and team-based access management. Whether you're debugging a single endpoint or managing a large-scale microservices architecture, Postman offers the flexibility and scalability to support modern, API-first development workflows.

**CAUTION**

> Pricing information is current as of June 2025 and subject to change. Many tools offer free tiers or trial periods.

### Key Features

| Feature                                | Description                                                                                         |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Built-in support for variables**     | Use variables to manage different environments (e.g., development, staging, production) easily.     |
| **Extensive testing capabilities**     | Write tests in JavaScript to validate API responses and automate testing workflows.                 |
| **Support for multiple protocols**     | Work with REST, SOAP, GraphQL, and WebSocket APIs seamlessly.                                       |
| **Generate code snippets**             | Automatically generate code snippets in various programming languages for API requests.             |
| **Write tests in the Postman Sandbox** | Use the Postman Sandbox to write tests and scripts that run before or after requests.               |
| **Mock servers**                       | Create mock servers to simulate API responses for testing and development purposes.                 |
| **Automated testing**                  | Use the Collection Runner to execute multiple requests and run tests in bulk.                       |
| **Environment management**             | Manage different environments with environment variables for easy switching between configurations. |
| **Developer portals**                  | Create and publish API documentation with interactive examples.                                     |
| **API Repository**                     | Store and manage API definitions, including OpenAPI and Swagger specifications.                     |
| **Version control**                    | Track changes to API requests and collections with built-in version control.                        |
| **Collaboration tools**                | Share collections, environments, and API definitions with team members for collaborative development. |
| **Monitoring**                          | Set up monitors to run collections at scheduled intervals and check API performance.                |
| **Integrations**                       | Integrate with CI/CD pipelines, version control systems, and other development tools.               |
| **Cross-platform support**             | Available as a web app, desktop app, and browser extension for easy access across devices.          |
| **API Documentation**                  | Automatically generate and publish API documentation from collections and requests.                |
| **API Versioning**                     | Manage different versions of APIs and track changes over time.                                      |
| **Security features**                  | Support for OAuth 2.0, API keys, and other authentication methods to secure API requests.          |

## Getting Started with Postman

Postman is available in many forms, including a web app, desktop app, and browser extension. You can choose the version that best fits your workflow.

| Name                                                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [**Web App**](https://identity.getpostman.com/signup?continue=https%3A%2F%2Fgo.postman.co%2Fhome&ref_key=HH3rd3CseVIs5kpDiPKYgY) | Access Postman directly from your web browser without installation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| [**Desktop Agent**](https://www.postman.com/downloads/postman-agent/)                                                            | Download and install the Postman desktop application for a more robust experience with additional features.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [**Browser Extension**](https://www.postman.com/product/postman-interceptor/)                                                    | Use the Postman browser extension for quick access to API testing features directly from your browser, available for Chrome, Safari, Edge, and Firefox.                                                                                                                             |
| [**Postman CLI**](https://learning.postman.com/docs/postman-cli/postman-cli-installation/)                                       | Use the Postman CLI tool for command-line access to Postman features, useful for automation and scripting.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| [**Newman CLI**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/newman)                                                                           | Run Postman collections from the command line using Newman, the official Postman command-line tool.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| [**VSCode Extension**](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Postman.postman-for-vscode)                           | Integrate Postman directly into Visual Studio Code for a seamless development experience.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [**Postman Canary**](https://www.postman.com/downloads/canary/)                                                                  | Access the latest features and updates in Postman before they are released to the stable version. This is a preview version that may contain experimental features and changes. Available for macOS, Windows 7 and later, Ubuntu 14.04 and later, Fedora 24, and Debian 8 and later |

### Pricing

| Plan             | Price (per user/month) | Key Features                                                                                       |
| ---------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Free**         | $0                     | Up to 3 collaborators, API Client, 25 collection runs, 50 free Postbot activities               |
| **Basic**        | $14                    | Everything in Free plus unlimited collaborators, 10K mock server requests, 10K monitor requests  |
| **Professional** | $29                    | Everything in Basic plus internal workspaces, partner workspaces, 25 packages, 90-day recovery  |
| **Enterprise**   | $49                    | Everything in Professional plus SSO, SCIM, reporting, audit logs, unlimited APIs                 |

*Prices shown are for annual billing. Monthly billing available at higher rates.*

## Using Postman

### Creating a New Request

- Open Postman
- Click on **Collections** in the left sidebar
- Select the collection where you want to create the request
- Click on the **+** icon next to the collection name to create a new request
- Alternatively, you can:
  - Click on **New** <FaChevronRight className="inline"/> **Request**
  - Enter the request name and select the collection to save it in
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the request
- The request will open in a new tab where you can configure it.

### Creating a New Collection

Collections in Postman allow you to group related API requests together, making it easier to manage and organize your API testing workflows. You can create collections for different projects, environments, or API versions.

- Open Postman
- Click on **Collections** in the left sidebar
- Click on the **+** icon next to the Collections header
- Enter the collection name and description
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the collection
- The collection will appear in the left sidebar, and you can start adding requests to it.

### Creating a New Request in a Collection

- Open Postman
- Click on **Collections** in the left sidebar
- Select the collection where you want to create the request
- Click on the **+** icon next to the collection name to create a new request
- Alternatively, you can:
  - Click on **New** <FaChevronRight className="inline"/> **Request**
  - Enter the request name and select the collection to save it in
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the request
- The request will open in a new tab where you can configure it.

**RESOURCE**

> More about creating and sending API requests in Postman can be found in the [Postman documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/sending-requests/create-requests/create-requests/).

### Setting Up the Request

- Select the request type (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.) from the dropdown menu
- Enter the request URL in the address bar
- Add query parameters by clicking on the **Params** tab and entering key-value pairs
- Add headers by clicking on the **Headers** tab and entering key-value pairs
- If the request requires a body (e.g., POST, PUT), switch to the **Body** tab and select the appropriate format (e.g., raw, form-data, x-www-form-urlencoded)
- For raw body, you can choose the format (JSON, XML, text, etc.) from the dropdown menu
- For JSON body, you can enter the data directly in the editor

```json
// Example POST request body
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "email": "john@example.com",
  "role": "developer"
}
```

<BackToTop />

### Authentication

Postman supports various authentication methods to secure API requests. You can configure authentication settings for each request or globally for a collection.

- Navigate to the **Authorization** tab
- Select authentication type and provide necessary credentials:

| Type              | Description                                                  |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **No Auth**       | No authentication required                                   |
| **API Key**       | Use an API key in headers or query parameters                |
| **Bearer Token**  | Use a token in the Authorization header                      |
| **Basic Auth**    | Use username and password for basic authentication           |
| **OAuth 2.0**     | Use OAuth 2.0 for secure access to protected resources       |
| **Digest Auth**   | Use digest authentication for secure access                  |
| **AWS Signature** | Use AWS signature for authenticated requests to AWS services |
| **NTLM**          | Use NTLM authentication for Windows-based services           |
| **Hawk**          | Use Hawk authentication for secure API requests              |
| **Custom**        | Use custom authentication methods as needed                  |
| **OAuth 1.0**     | Use OAuth 1.0 for secure access to protected resources       |

**RESOURCE**

> The authentication method you choose will depend on the API you are working with. Always refer to the API documentation for the required authentication method and credentials. More about authentication can be found in the [Postman documentation](https://learning.postman.com/docs/sending-requests/authorization/).

### Sending Requests

- Click <Button variant="outline" className="mx-1">Send</Button> to execute
- Things to take note of:

| Field                | Description                                          | Location in UI                                |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Status Code**      | HTTP response status code (e.g., 200, 404)           | Next to the response body                     |
| **Status Message**   | Description of the status code (e.g., OK, Not Found) | Next to the status code                       |
| **Response Time**    | Time taken to receive the response                   | Next to the status code                       |
| **Response Size**    | Size of the response in bytes                        | Next to the response time                     |
| **Response Body**    | The actual data returned by the API                  | In the response body section                  |
| **Response Headers** | Metadata about the response (e.g., content type)     | In the headers tab of the response panel      |
| **Cookies**          | Cookies set by the server                            | In the cookies tab of the response panel      |
| **Test Results**     | Results of any tests run on the response             | In the test results tab of the response panel |

<BackToTop />

### Writing Tests

Writing tests in Postman allows you to automate the validation of API responses. You can use the built-in Postman Sandbox, which provides a JavaScript environment to write tests that run after a request is sent.
You can access the response data using `pm.response` and write assertions to check if the response meets your expectations. Postman provides a rich set of assertion methods to validate various aspects of the response, such as status codes, response time, and specific data fields.

- Navigate to the **Tests** tab
- Write JavaScript code to validate response data

```javascript
// Example test script
pm.test("Status code is 200", function () {
  pm.response.to.have.status(200);
});

pm.test("Response has required fields", function () {
  const responseData = pm.response.json();
  pm.expect(responseData).to.have.property("id");
  pm.expect(responseData).to.have.property("name");
});
```

### Using Environment Variables

**Postman Vault** allows you to manage environment variables, which are key-value pairs that can be used across requests and collections. Environment variables are useful for storing configuration settings, such as API keys, base URLs, and other parameters that may change between different environments (e.g., development, staging, production).

- Create a new environment by clicking on the **Environments** icon in the left sidebar
- Click on the **+** icon to create a new environment
- Enter the environment name and add key-value pairs for variables
- Click <Button variant="tertiary" className="mx-1">Save</Button> to create the environment
- To use an environment variable in a request, reference it using the `{{variableName}}` syntax

```javascript
// Example of using an environment variable in a request URL
const baseUrl = pm.environment.get("baseUrl");
pm.request.url = `${baseUrl}/api/users`;
```

### Automating Testing

A collection runner is a feature in Postman that allows you to run a collection of requests with different sets of data. You can use it to automate testing by providing a data file (CSV or JSON) that contains multiple sets of input values for your requests.

- Use the **Collection Runner** to:
  - Execute multiple requests in sequence
  - Run test suites
  - Generate test reports
- Set up data files for parameterized testing

**TIP**

> When working with sensitive data like API keys or passwords, always use environment variables instead of hardcoding them in your requests. This practice enhances security and makes it easier to switch between different environments.

<BackToTop />
