src/app/ecommerce-platform/context-and-hooks/creating-the-hooks/getting-started-with-custom-hooks/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

Custom hooks serve as the backbone of reusable logic in React applications, offering an elegant solution for sharing stateful behavior across components. In our e-commerce platform, we leverage custom hooks to handle responsive design patterns, authentication protection, order management workflows, clipboard functionality, and essential utility operations.

React's custom hooks represent one of the framework's most powerful features, enabling developers to extract and encapsulate complex stateful logic into reusable functions. These hooks provide a clean abstraction layer that manages state transitions, handles side effects, and delivers consistent APIs for component interaction.

## Understanding Custom Hooks

Custom hooks are JavaScript functions that follow a specific naming convention—they must begin with the prefix `use`—and can utilize other React hooks internally. They serve as a mechanism to extract and share component logic, transforming complex stateful operations into reusable, maintainable functions.

The primary purpose of custom hooks is to provide a clean abstraction layer that manages state, handles side effects, and offers a consistent interface for components to interact with shared functionality.

## The Value of Custom Hooks

Custom hooks address several common development challenges by eliminating code duplication, improving organization, and enhancing component readability. They enable you to encapsulate complex logic within dedicated functions, making testing and maintenance significantly easier.

By utilizing custom hooks, you can share logic between components without the complexity of lifting state up or passing props through multiple component hierarchy levels.

## Key Advantages

- **Reusability**: Custom hooks allow you to encapsulate logic that can be reused across multiple components, reducing code duplication.
- **Separation of Concerns**: Custom hooks help you separate logic from UI, making your components cleaner and easier to understand.
- **Testability**: Custom hooks can be tested independently, allowing you to write unit tests for your logic without involving the UI.
- **Consistency**: Custom hooks provide a consistent API for your components, making it easier to use and understand the logic they encapsulate.

## Hook Implementations

We will be implementing several custom hooks to handle various functionalities throughout our e-commerce platform. These specialized hooks will include:

- **useOrderManagement**: A hook to manage order-related operations, such as fetching orders, updating order status, and handling order history.
- **useAuthGuard**: A hook to protect routes and ensure that only authenticated users can access certain pages.
- **useOrderNotifications**: A hook to manage order notifications, such as displaying success or error messages when an order is placed or updated.
- **useProtectedAction**: A hook to handle protected actions that require user authentication, such as placing an order or updating user profile information.
- **usePurchaseHistory**: A hook to manage the user's purchase history, allowing users to view their past orders and details.

We also have `useIsMobile` from `shadcn/ui`, which is a utility hook that helps you determine if the viewport is considered mobile. This is essential for responsive design implementations, ensuring that components can adapt their behavior and layout based on screen size. Our `Sidebar` component utilizes this hook to provide an optimal user experience across different devices.

Let's examine the `useIsMobile` hook from `shadcn/ui`:

```tsx
// src/hooks/use-mobile.ts
import * as React from "react";

const MOBILE_BREAKPOINT = 768;

/**
 * Custom hook to determine if the current viewport width is considered mobile.
 *
 * This hook uses the `window.matchMedia` API to listen for changes in the viewport width
 * and updates the state accordingly. The mobile breakpoint is defined by the `MOBILE_BREAKPOINT` constant.
 *
 * @returns {boolean} - Returns `true` if the viewport width is less than the mobile breakpoint, otherwise `false`.
 */
export function useIsMobile(): boolean {
  const [isMobile, setIsMobile] = React.useState<boolean | undefined>(
    undefined
  );

  React.useEffect(() => {
    const mql = window.matchMedia(`(max-width: ${MOBILE_BREAKPOINT - 1}px)`);
    const onChange = () => {
      setIsMobile(window.innerWidth < MOBILE_BREAKPOINT);
    };
    mql.addEventListener("change", onChange);
    setIsMobile(window.innerWidth < MOBILE_BREAKPOINT);
    return () => mql.removeEventListener("change", onChange);
  }, []);

  return !!isMobile;
}
```

##### Explanation of the `useIsMobile` Hook

The `useIsMobile` hook uses the `window.matchMedia` API to listen for changes in the viewport width. It sets the initial state based on the current viewport width and updates it whenever the viewport width changes. The hook returns a boolean value indicating whether the current viewport width is considered mobile (less than 768 pixels).

This hook is particularly useful for components that need to adapt their behavior based on the viewport size, such as responsive navigation menus or sidebars.

Within the `SidebarProvider`, `useIsMobile()` is used to determine if the sidebar should be displayed in a mobile-friendly manner. This allows the sidebar to adapt its layout and functionality based on the device being used.

```tsx
// src/components/ui/sidebar.tsx

const SidebarProvider = React.forwardRef<
  HTMLDivElement,
  React.ComponentProps<"div"> & {
    defaultOpen?: boolean;
    open?: boolean;
    onOpenChange?: (open: boolean) => void;
  }
>(
  (
    {
      defaultOpen = true,
      open: openProp,
      onOpenChange: setOpenProp,
      className,
      style,
      children,
      ...props
    },
    ref
  ) => {
    const isMobile = useIsMobile();
    const [openMobile, setOpenMobile] = React.useState(false);

    // This is the internal state of the sidebar.
    // We use openProp and setOpenProp for control from outside the component.
    const [_open, _setOpen] = React.useState(defaultOpen);
    const open = openProp ?? _open;
    const setOpen = React.useCallback(
      (value: boolean | ((value: boolean) => boolean)) => {
        const openState = typeof value === "function" ? value(open) : value;
        if (setOpenProp) {
          setOpenProp(openState);
        } else {
          _setOpen(openState);
        }

        // This sets the cookie to keep the sidebar state.
        document.cookie = `${SIDEBAR_COOKIE_NAME}=${openState}; path=/; max-age=${SIDEBAR_COOKIE_MAX_AGE}`;
      },
      [setOpenProp, open]
    );

    // Helper to toggle the sidebar.
    const toggleSidebar = React.useCallback(() => {
      return isMobile
        ? setOpenMobile((open) => !open)
        : setOpen((open) => !open);
    }, [isMobile, setOpen, setOpenMobile]);

    // Adds a keyboard shortcut to toggle the sidebar.
    React.useEffect(() => {
      const handleKeyDown = (event: KeyboardEvent) => {
        if (
          event.key === SIDEBAR_KEYBOARD_SHORTCUT &&
          (event.metaKey || event.ctrlKey)
        ) {
          event.preventDefault();
          toggleSidebar();
        }
      };

      window.addEventListener("keydown", handleKeyDown);
      return () => window.removeEventListener("keydown", handleKeyDown);
    }, [toggleSidebar]);

    // We add a state so that we can do data-state="expanded" or "collapsed".
    // This makes it easier to style the sidebar with Tailwind classes.
    const state = open ? "expanded" : "collapsed";

    const contextValue = React.useMemo<SidebarContext>(
      () => ({
        state,
        open,
        setOpen,
        isMobile,
        openMobile,
        setOpenMobile,
        toggleSidebar,
      }),
      [state, open, setOpen, isMobile, openMobile, setOpenMobile, toggleSidebar]
    );

    return (
      <SidebarContext.Provider value={contextValue}>
        <TooltipProvider delayDuration={0}>
          <div
            style={
              {
                "--sidebar-width": SIDEBAR_WIDTH,
                "--sidebar-width-icon": SIDEBAR_WIDTH_ICON,
                ...style,
              } as React.CSSProperties
            }
            className={cn(
              "group/sidebar-wrapper flex min-h-svh w-full has-data-[variant=inset]:bg-sidebar",
              className
            )}
            ref={ref}
            {...props}
          >
            {children}
          </div>
        </TooltipProvider>
      </SidebarContext.Provider>
    );
  }
);
```

##### Explanation of the `SidebarProvider`

The `SidebarProvider` component serves as a comprehensive sidebar management solution that demonstrates the power of custom hooks in creating responsive, accessible UI components. Here's a detailed breakdown of its functionality:

##### Responsive Behavior Management

The component leverages the `useIsMobile` hook to determine the current device type and adapt its behavior accordingly. It maintains separate state management for desktop and mobile experiences:

- **Desktop Mode**: Uses `open` state for persistent sidebar visibility
- **Mobile Mode**: Uses `openMobile` state for overlay-style sidebar behavior

##### State Management Architecture

The provider implements a state management pattern that supports both controlled and uncontrolled component behavior:

- **Internal State**: Manages its own state with `_open` and `_setOpen` for uncontrolled usage
- **External Control**: Accepts `openProp` and `setOpenProp` for controlled usage from parent components
- **State Persistence**: Automatically saves sidebar state to cookies for user preference retention across sessions

##### Accessibility and User Experience

The component prioritizes accessibility through multiple interaction methods:

- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Implements Cmd/Ctrl + key combinations for quick sidebar toggling
- **Event Management**: Properly handles event listeners with cleanup to prevent memory leaks
- **Focus Management**: Uses `TooltipProvider` for enhanced tooltip behavior and accessibility

##### Context-Based Architecture

The provider creates a comprehensive context that exposes:

- Current sidebar state (`expanded` or `collapsed`)
- State setters for both mobile and desktop modes
- Device detection information
- Toggle functionality for programmatic control

##### CSS Custom Properties Integration

The component demonstrates modern CSS-in-JS patterns by:

- Setting CSS custom properties (`--sidebar-width`, `--sidebar-width-icon`) for dynamic styling
- Using `data-state` attributes for Tailwind CSS styling hooks
- Providing flexible styling through the `style` prop merge

This adaptive approach ensures the sidebar provides optimal functionality across different screen sizes, particularly valuable in responsive designs where the sidebar behavior must dynamically adjust based on viewport dimensions. The component showcases how custom hooks can be integrated into complex UI components to create maintainable, accessible, and highly functional user interfaces.

## Next Steps

With a solid understanding of custom hooks and their advantages, we'll proceed to implement our specialized hooks for the e-commerce platform, beginning with the [`useAuthGuard` hook](/ecommerce-platform/context-and-hooks/creating-the-hooks/useAuthGuard). These custom hooks will encapsulate essential logic for order management, authentication, notifications, and other core functionalities, resulting in a cleaner, more maintainable codebase.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for custom hooks in e-commerce platform
- Updated the "Getting Started with Custom Hooks" section to provide a comprehensive overview of specialized hooks, including use cases and benefits for order management, authentication, notifications, and integration with other providers.
- Refined the "useAuthGuard" documentation to emphasize core security patterns, advanced React patterns, user experience design, and enterprise development practices.
- Expanded the "useOrderManagement" documentation to include advanced implementation strategies, business impact, and future enhancement roadmap.
- Improved the "useOrderNotifications" documentation with advanced enhancement strategies, business value, and strategic impact.
- Enhanced the "useProtectedAction" documentation to detail advanced implementation strategies, business value, and future enhancement roadmap.
- Updated the "usePurchaseHistory" documentation to focus on advanced enhancement strategies, strategic business value, and future enhancement roadmap.
- Added a transition to the implementation of the "ProductGrid" component, highlighting its role in the user interface and integration with custom hooks.

src/app/ecommerce-platform/context-and-hooks/creating-the-hooks/getting-started-with-custom-hooks/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Overview

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

Custom hooks serve as the backbone of reusable logic in React applications, offering an elegant solution for sharing stateful behavior across components. In our e-commerce platform, we leverage custom hooks to handle responsive design patterns, authentication protection, order management workflows, clipboard functionality, and essential utility operations.

React's custom hooks represent one of the framework's most powerful features, enabling developers to extract and encapsulate complex stateful logic into reusable functions. These hooks provide a clean abstraction layer that manages state transitions, handles side effects, and delivers consistent APIs for component interaction.

## Understanding Custom Hooks

Custom hooks are JavaScript functions that follow a specific naming convention—they must begin with the prefix `use`—and can utilize other React hooks internally. They serve as a mechanism to extract and share component logic, transforming complex stateful operations into reusable, maintainable functions.

The primary purpose of custom hooks is to provide a clean abstraction layer that manages state, handles side effects, and offers a consistent interface for components to interact with shared functionality.

## The Value of Custom Hooks

Custom hooks address several common development challenges by eliminating code duplication, improving organization, and enhancing component readability. They enable you to encapsulate complex logic within dedicated functions, making testing and maintenance significantly easier.

By utilizing custom hooks, you can share logic between components without the complexity of lifting state up or passing props through multiple component hierarchy levels.

## Key Advantages

- **Reusability**: Custom hooks allow you to encapsulate logic that can be reused across multiple components, reducing code duplication.
- **Separation of Concerns**: Custom hooks help you separate logic from UI, making your components cleaner and easier to understand.
- **Testability**: Custom hooks can be tested independently, allowing you to write unit tests for your logic without involving the UI.
- **Consistency**: Custom hooks provide a consistent API for your components, making it easier to use and understand the logic they encapsulate.

## Hook Implementations

We will be implementing several custom hooks to handle various functionalities throughout our e-commerce platform. These specialized hooks will include:

- **useOrderManagement**: A hook to manage order-related operations, such as fetching orders, updating order status, and handling order history.
- **useAuthGuard**: A hook to protect routes and ensure that only authenticated users can access certain pages.
- **useOrderNotifications**: A hook to manage order notifications, such as displaying success or error messages when an order is placed or updated.
- **useProtectedAction**: A hook to handle protected actions that require user authentication, such as placing an order or updating user profile information.
- **usePurchaseHistory**: A hook to manage the user's purchase history, allowing users to view their past orders and details.

We also have `useIsMobile` from `shadcn/ui`, which is a utility hook that helps you determine if the viewport is considered mobile. This is essential for responsive design implementations, ensuring that components can adapt their behavior and layout based on screen size. Our `Sidebar` component utilizes this hook to provide an optimal user experience across different devices.

Let's examine the `useIsMobile` hook from `shadcn/ui`:

```tsx
// src/hooks/use-mobile.ts
import * as React from "react";

const MOBILE_BREAKPOINT = 768;

/**
 * Custom hook to determine if the current viewport width is considered mobile.
 *
 * This hook uses the `window.matchMedia` API to listen for changes in the viewport width
 * and updates the state accordingly. The mobile breakpoint is defined by the `MOBILE_BREAKPOINT` constant.
 *
 * @returns {boolean} - Returns `true` if the viewport width is less than the mobile breakpoint, otherwise `false`.
 */
export function useIsMobile(): boolean {
  const [isMobile, setIsMobile] = React.useState<boolean | undefined>(
    undefined
  );

  React.useEffect(() => {
    const mql = window.matchMedia(`(max-width: ${MOBILE_BREAKPOINT - 1}px)`);
    const onChange = () => {
      setIsMobile(window.innerWidth < MOBILE_BREAKPOINT);
    };
    mql.addEventListener("change", onChange);
    setIsMobile(window.innerWidth < MOBILE_BREAKPOINT);
    return () => mql.removeEventListener("change", onChange);
  }, []);

  return !!isMobile;
}
```

##### Explanation of the `useIsMobile` Hook

The `useIsMobile` hook uses the `window.matchMedia` API to listen for changes in the viewport width. It sets the initial state based on the current viewport width and updates it whenever the viewport width changes. The hook returns a boolean value indicating whether the current viewport width is considered mobile (less than 768 pixels).

This hook is particularly useful for components that need to adapt their behavior based on the viewport size, such as responsive navigation menus or sidebars.

Within the `SidebarProvider`, `useIsMobile()` is used to determine if the sidebar should be displayed in a mobile-friendly manner. This allows the sidebar to adapt its layout and functionality based on the device being used.

```tsx
// src/components/ui/sidebar.tsx

const SidebarProvider = React.forwardRef<
  HTMLDivElement,
  React.ComponentProps<"div"> & {
    defaultOpen?: boolean;
    open?: boolean;
    onOpenChange?: (open: boolean) => void;
  }
>(
  (
    {
      defaultOpen = true,
      open: openProp,
      onOpenChange: setOpenProp,
      className,
      style,
      children,
      ...props
    },
    ref
  ) => {
    const isMobile = useIsMobile();
    const [openMobile, setOpenMobile] = React.useState(false);

    // This is the internal state of the sidebar.
    // We use openProp and setOpenProp for control from outside the component.
    const [_open, _setOpen] = React.useState(defaultOpen);
    const open = openProp ?? _open;
    const setOpen = React.useCallback(
      (value: boolean | ((value: boolean) => boolean)) => {
        const openState = typeof value === "function" ? value(open) : value;
        if (setOpenProp) {
          setOpenProp(openState);
        } else {
          _setOpen(openState);
        }

        // This sets the cookie to keep the sidebar state.
        document.cookie = `${SIDEBAR_COOKIE_NAME}=${openState}; path=/; max-age=${SIDEBAR_COOKIE_MAX_AGE}`;
      },
      [setOpenProp, open]
    );

    // Helper to toggle the sidebar.
    const toggleSidebar = React.useCallback(() => {
      return isMobile
        ? setOpenMobile((open) => !open)
        : setOpen((open) => !open);
    }, [isMobile, setOpen, setOpenMobile]);

    // Adds a keyboard shortcut to toggle the sidebar.
    React.useEffect(() => {
      const handleKeyDown = (event: KeyboardEvent) => {
        if (
          event.key === SIDEBAR_KEYBOARD_SHORTCUT &&
          (event.metaKey || event.ctrlKey)
        ) {
          event.preventDefault();
          toggleSidebar();
        }
      };

      window.addEventListener("keydown", handleKeyDown);
      return () => window.removeEventListener("keydown", handleKeyDown);
    }, [toggleSidebar]);

    // We add a state so that we can do data-state="expanded" or "collapsed".
    // This makes it easier to style the sidebar with Tailwind classes.
    const state = open ? "expanded" : "collapsed";

    const contextValue = React.useMemo<SidebarContext>(
      () => ({
        state,
        open,
        setOpen,
        isMobile,
        openMobile,
        setOpenMobile,
        toggleSidebar,
      }),
      [state, open, setOpen, isMobile, openMobile, setOpenMobile, toggleSidebar]
    );

    return (
      <SidebarContext.Provider value={contextValue}>
        <TooltipProvider delayDuration={0}>
          <div
            style={
              {
                "--sidebar-width": SIDEBAR_WIDTH,
                "--sidebar-width-icon": SIDEBAR_WIDTH_ICON,
                ...style,
              } as React.CSSProperties
            }
            className={cn(
              "group/sidebar-wrapper flex min-h-svh w-full has-data-[variant=inset]:bg-sidebar",
              className
            )}
            ref={ref}
            {...props}
          >
            {children}
          </div>
        </TooltipProvider>
      </SidebarContext.Provider>
    );
  }
);
```

##### Explanation of the `SidebarProvider`

The `SidebarProvider` component serves as a comprehensive sidebar management solution that demonstrates the power of custom hooks in creating responsive, accessible UI components. Here's a detailed breakdown of its functionality:

##### Responsive Behavior Management

The component leverages the `useIsMobile` hook to determine the current device type and adapt its behavior accordingly. It maintains separate state management for desktop and mobile experiences:

- **Desktop Mode**: Uses `open` state for persistent sidebar visibility
- **Mobile Mode**: Uses `openMobile` state for overlay-style sidebar behavior

##### State Management Architecture

The provider implements a state management pattern that supports both controlled and uncontrolled component behavior:

- **Internal State**: Manages its own state with `_open` and `_setOpen` for uncontrolled usage
- **External Control**: Accepts `openProp` and `setOpenProp` for controlled usage from parent components
- **State Persistence**: Automatically saves sidebar state to cookies for user preference retention across sessions

##### Accessibility and User Experience

The component prioritizes accessibility through multiple interaction methods:

- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Implements Cmd/Ctrl + key combinations for quick sidebar toggling
- **Event Management**: Properly handles event listeners with cleanup to prevent memory leaks
- **Focus Management**: Uses `TooltipProvider` for enhanced tooltip behavior and accessibility

##### Context-Based Architecture

The provider creates a comprehensive context that exposes:

- Current sidebar state (`expanded` or `collapsed`)
- State setters for both mobile and desktop modes
- Device detection information
- Toggle functionality for programmatic control

##### CSS Custom Properties Integration

The component demonstrates modern CSS-in-JS patterns by:

- Setting CSS custom properties (`--sidebar-width`, `--sidebar-width-icon`) for dynamic styling
- Using `data-state` attributes for Tailwind CSS styling hooks
- Providing flexible styling through the `style` prop merge

This adaptive approach ensures the sidebar provides optimal functionality across different screen sizes, particularly valuable in responsive designs where the sidebar behavior must dynamically adjust based on viewport dimensions. The component showcases how custom hooks can be integrated into complex UI components to create maintainable, accessible, and highly functional user interfaces.

## Next Steps

With a comprehensive understanding of custom hooks and their numerous advantages, we are now poised to implement a suite of specialized hooks specifically crafted for the needs of our e-commerce platform. Our journey begins with the [`useAuthGuard` hook](/ecommerce-platform/context-and-hooks/creating-the-hooks/useAuthGuard), which is fundamental for protecting sensitive routes and ensuring that only authenticated users gain access to restricted areas of the application.

These custom hooks will serve as encapsulations of critical business logic, managing complex processes such as:

- **Order management workflows:** Handling state transitions, updates, and synchronization of order data in real-time.  
- **User authentication and authorization:** Managing login state, session persistence, and route protection to maintain security.  
- **Notification systems:** Providing seamless real-time updates and alerts that enhance user engagement.  
- **Integration with other providers:** Coordinating interactions between cart, wishlist, and order contexts for a unified user experience.  

By modularizing these functionalities into well-defined hooks, we achieve a more organized and maintainable codebase. This separation of concerns reduces redundancy and improves developer efficiency by promoting code reuse and consistent logic implementation across components.

Moreover, the use of custom hooks enables optimized performance by centralizing state management and side effects, thereby minimizing unnecessary re-renders and improving responsiveness.

Implementing these hooks marks a critical milestone in your platform’s evolution. It aligns your architecture with modern React development best practices, facilitates future scalability, and supports the ongoing addition of new features without compromising stability or maintainability.

Proceeding with these implementations ensures your e-commerce application remains robust, performant, and user-centric — ready to meet the demands of a dynamic online marketplace.

<BackToTop />
