src/app/ecommerce-platform/utility-functions-and-validation-constants/validation-constants/page.mdx, before:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Validation Constants

## Table of Contents

## Address Validation Constants

### Valid Countries

We will be listing out the valid countries that we will be using for our e-commerce platform. This will help us ensure that we are only accepting valid country codes when users enter their shipping information.

Due to the length of the address validation constants, they have been moved to a GitHub Gist. You can find them [here](https://gist.github.com/tmchuynh/62aa48cb0d7971d0473d5c1f6d443130).

### Postal Code Patterns

We will be defining the postal code patterns for the countries we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid postal codes when they enter their shipping information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/address.ts
export const POSTAL_CODE_PATTERNS = {
  US: /^\d{5}(-\d{4})?$/, // 12345 or 12345-6789
  CA: /^[A-Z]\d[A-Z]\s?\d[A-Z]\d$/i, // A1A 1A1 or A1A1A1
  GB: /^[A-Z]{1,2}\d[A-Z\d]?\s?\d[A-Z]{2}$/i, // SW1A 1AA or M1 1AA
  AU: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  DE: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  FR: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  JP: /^\d{3}-\d{4}$/, // 123-4567
  CN: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  IN: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  BR: /^\d{5}-?\d{3}$/, // 12345-678 or 12345678
  IT: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  ES: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  NL: /^\d{4}\s?[A-Z]{2}$/i, // 1234 AB or 1234AB
  MX: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  RU: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  KR: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  ZA: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  PL: /^\d{2}-\d{3}$/, // 12-345
  SE: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  NO: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  DK: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  FI: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  AT: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  CH: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  BE: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  IE: /^[A-Z]\d{2}\s?[A-Z\d]{4}$/i, // A12 B345 or A12B345
  PT: /^\d{4}-\d{3}$/, // 1234-567
  GR: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  CZ: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  HU: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  SK: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  SI: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  HR: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  BG: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  RO: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  LT: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  LV: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  EE: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  MT: /^[A-Z]{3}\s?\d{4}$/i, // ABC 1234 or ABC1234
  LU: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  CY: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  IS: /^\d{3}$/, // 123
  LI: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  MC: /^980\d{2}$/, // 98000-98099
  SM: /^4789\d$/, // 47890-47899
  VA: /^00120$/, // 00120
  AD: /^AD\d{3}$/i, // AD123
};
```

### Valid States

We will be defining the valid states for the countries we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid state codes when they enter their shipping information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/address.ts

export const VALID_STATES = {
  US: [
    "AL",
    "AK",
    "AZ",
    "AR",
    "CA",
    "CO",
    "CT",
    "DE",
    "FL",
    "GA",
    "HI",
    "ID",
    "IL",
    "IN",
    "IA",
    "KS",
    "KY",
    "LA",
    "ME",
    "MD",
    "MA",
    "MI",
    "MN",
    "MS",
    "MO",
    "MT",
    "NE",
    "NV",
    "NH",
    "NJ",
    "NM",
    "NY",
    "NC",
    "ND",
    "OH",
    "OK",
    "OR",
    "PA",
    "RI",
    "SC",
    "SD",
    "TN",
    "TX",
    "UT",
    "VT",
    "VA",
    "WA",
    "WV",
    "WI",
    "WY",
    "DC",
  ],
  CA: [
    "AB",
    "BC",
    "MB",
    "NB",
    "NL",
    "NS",
    "NT",
    "NU",
    "ON",
    "PE",
    "QC",
    "SK",
    "YT",
  ],
  AU: ["ACT", "NSW", "NT", "QLD", "SA", "TAS", "VIC", "WA"],
};
```

<BackToTop />

## Credit Card Validation Constants

### Credit Card Patterns

We will be defining the credit card patterns for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid credit card numbers when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const CARD_PATTERNS = {
  VISA: {
    pattern: /^4[0-9]{12}(?:[0-9]{3})?$/,
    lengths: [13, 16, 19],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Visa",
    icon: "visa",
  },
  MASTERCARD: {
    pattern:
      /^5[1-5][0-9]{14}$|^2(?:2(?:2[1-9]|[3-9][0-9])|[3-6][0-9][0-9]|7(?:[01][0-9]|20))[0-9]{12}$/,
    lengths: [16],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Mastercard",
    icon: "mastercard",
  },
  AMERICAN_EXPRESS: {
    pattern: /^3[47][0-9]{13}$/,
    lengths: [15],
    cvvLength: 4,
    name: "American Express",
    icon: "amex",
  },
  DISCOVER: {
    pattern: /^6(?:011|5[0-9]{2})[0-9]{12}$/,
    lengths: [16],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Discover",
    icon: "discover",
  },
  JCB: {
    pattern: /^(?:2131|1800|35\d{3})\d{11}$/,
    lengths: [16],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "JCB",
    icon: "jcb",
  },
  DINERS_CLUB: {
    pattern: /^3(?:0[0-5]|[68][0-9])[0-9]{11}$/,
    lengths: [14],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Diners Club",
    icon: "diners",
  },
  MAESTRO: {
    pattern: /^(?:5[0678]\d\d|6304|6390|67\d\d)\d{8,15}$/,
    lengths: [12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Maestro",
    icon: "maestro",
  },
  UNIONPAY: {
    pattern: /^(62|88)\d{14,17}$/,
    lengths: [16, 17, 18, 19],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "UnionPay",
    icon: "unionpay",
  },
};
export type CardType = keyof typeof CARD_PATTERNS;
```

### Card Type Patterns

We will be defining the card type patterns for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid card types when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const CARD_TYPE_PATTERNS = {
  VISA: /^4/,
  MASTERCARD: /^5[1-5]|^2[2-7]/,
  AMERICAN_EXPRESS: /^3[47]/,
  DISCOVER: /^6011|^644|^645|^646|^647|^648|^649|^65/,
  JCB: /^35/,
  DINERS_CLUB: /^30[0-5]|^36|^38/,
  MAESTRO: /^5018|^5020|^5038|^5893|^6304|^6759|^6761|^6762|^6763/,
  UNIONPAY: /^62|^88/,
};
```

### Expiration Date Patterns

We will be defining the expiration date patterns for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid expiration dates when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const EXPIRY_PATTERNS = {
  MM_YY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])\/([0-9]{2})$/,
  MM_YYYY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])\/([0-9]{4})$/,
  MMYY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])([0-9]{2})$/,
  MMYYYY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])([0-9]{4})$/,
};
```

### Accepted Cards Array

We will be defining the accepted cards array for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid credit card numbers when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const ACCEPTED_CARD_TYPES = [
  "VISA",
  "MASTERCARD",
  "AMERICAN_EXPRESS",
  "DISCOVER",
  "JCB",
  "DINERS_CLUB",
  "MAESTRO",
  "UNIONPAY",
] as const;
export type AcceptedCardType = (typeof ACCEPTED_CARD_TYPES)[number];
```

## Payment Error Messages

We will be defining the payment error messages for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid credit card numbers when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const PAYMENT_ERROR_MESSAGES = {
  CARD_NUMBER_REQUIRED: "Card number is required",
  CARD_NUMBER_INVALID: "Invalid card number",
  CARD_NUMBER_LUHN_FAILED: "Card number failed security check",
  CARD_TYPE_UNSUPPORTED: "Card type is not supported",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_REQUIRED: "Cardholder name is required",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_TOO_SHORT: "Cardholder name must be at least 2 characters",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_TOO_LONG: "Cardholder name must not exceed 50 characters",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_INVALID: "Cardholder name contains invalid characters",
  EXPIRY_DATE_REQUIRED: "Expiry date is required",
  EXPIRY_DATE_INVALID_FORMAT: "Expiry date must be in MM/YY format",
  EXPIRY_DATE_EXPIRED: "Card has expired",
  EXPIRY_DATE_TOO_FAR: "Expiry date cannot be more than 20 years in the future",
  CVV_REQUIRED: "CVV is required",
  CVV_INVALID_LENGTH: "CVV must be 3-4 digits",
  CVV_INVALID_FORMAT: "CVV must contain only numbers",
  BILLING_ADDRESS_REQUIRED: "Billing address is required for this card type",
} as const;
```

## Security Constants

We will be defining the security constants for the e-commerce platform. This will help us ensure that we are following best practices for security and protecting user data.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const SECURITY_CONSTANTS = {
  MAX_EXPIRY_YEARS_FUTURE: 20,
  MIN_CARDHOLDER_NAME_LENGTH: 2,
  MAX_CARDHOLDER_NAME_LENGTH: 50,
  CVV_MIN_LENGTH: 3,
  CVV_MAX_LENGTH: 4,
} as const;
```

## Next Steps

Now that we have our validation constants, we will start implementing the utility functions that will use these constants to validate user input across our e-commerce platform. This will help us maintain clean and consistent data, ensuring a smooth user experience.

Head over to [Formatting Utility Functions](/ecommerce-platform/utility-functions-and-validation-constants/formatting-utility-functions) to continue building out your e-commerce platform. This will help us set up the necessary utility functions for our e-commerce platform, ensuring that our data is clean and consistent.

<BackToTop />

Commit message:

fix: add introductory sections and enhance descriptions in utility functions documentation

src/app/ecommerce-platform/utility-functions-and-validation-constants/validation-constants/page.mdx, after:

import BackToTop from "@/components/BackToTop";

# Validation Constants

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

These validation constants are designed to help us maintain clean and consistent data across our e-commerce platform. They will be used in various utility functions to validate user input, ensuring that we only accept valid data for addresses, credit cards, and other important fields.

## Address Validation Constants

### Valid Countries

We will be listing out the valid countries that we will be using for our e-commerce platform. This will help us ensure that we are only accepting valid country codes when users enter their shipping information.

Due to the length of the address validation constants, they have been moved to a GitHub Gist. You can find them [here](https://gist.github.com/tmchuynh/62aa48cb0d7971d0473d5c1f6d443130).

### Postal Code Patterns

We will be defining the postal code patterns for the countries we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid postal codes when they enter their shipping information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/address.ts
export const POSTAL_CODE_PATTERNS = {
  US: /^\d{5}(-\d{4})?$/, // 12345 or 12345-6789
  CA: /^[A-Z]\d[A-Z]\s?\d[A-Z]\d$/i, // A1A 1A1 or A1A1A1
  GB: /^[A-Z]{1,2}\d[A-Z\d]?\s?\d[A-Z]{2}$/i, // SW1A 1AA or M1 1AA
  AU: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  DE: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  FR: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  JP: /^\d{3}-\d{4}$/, // 123-4567
  CN: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  IN: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  BR: /^\d{5}-?\d{3}$/, // 12345-678 or 12345678
  IT: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  ES: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  NL: /^\d{4}\s?[A-Z]{2}$/i, // 1234 AB or 1234AB
  MX: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  RU: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  KR: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  ZA: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  PL: /^\d{2}-\d{3}$/, // 12-345
  SE: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  NO: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  DK: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  FI: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  AT: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  CH: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  BE: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  IE: /^[A-Z]\d{2}\s?[A-Z\d]{4}$/i, // A12 B345 or A12B345
  PT: /^\d{4}-\d{3}$/, // 1234-567
  GR: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  CZ: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  HU: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  SK: /^\d{3}\s?\d{2}$/, // 123 45 or 12345
  SI: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  HR: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  BG: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  RO: /^\d{6}$/, // 123456
  LT: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  LV: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  EE: /^\d{5}$/, // 12345
  MT: /^[A-Z]{3}\s?\d{4}$/i, // ABC 1234 or ABC1234
  LU: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  CY: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  IS: /^\d{3}$/, // 123
  LI: /^\d{4}$/, // 1234
  MC: /^980\d{2}$/, // 98000-98099
  SM: /^4789\d$/, // 47890-47899
  VA: /^00120$/, // 00120
  AD: /^AD\d{3}$/i, // AD123
};
```

### Valid States

We will be defining the valid states for the countries we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid state codes when they enter their shipping information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/address.ts

export const VALID_STATES = {
  US: [
    "AL",
    "AK",
    "AZ",
    "AR",
    "CA",
    "CO",
    "CT",
    "DE",
    "FL",
    "GA",
    "HI",
    "ID",
    "IL",
    "IN",
    "IA",
    "KS",
    "KY",
    "LA",
    "ME",
    "MD",
    "MA",
    "MI",
    "MN",
    "MS",
    "MO",
    "MT",
    "NE",
    "NV",
    "NH",
    "NJ",
    "NM",
    "NY",
    "NC",
    "ND",
    "OH",
    "OK",
    "OR",
    "PA",
    "RI",
    "SC",
    "SD",
    "TN",
    "TX",
    "UT",
    "VT",
    "VA",
    "WA",
    "WV",
    "WI",
    "WY",
    "DC",
  ],
  CA: [
    "AB",
    "BC",
    "MB",
    "NB",
    "NL",
    "NS",
    "NT",
    "NU",
    "ON",
    "PE",
    "QC",
    "SK",
    "YT",
  ],
  AU: ["ACT", "NSW", "NT", "QLD", "SA", "TAS", "VIC", "WA"],
};
```

<BackToTop />

## Credit Card Validation Constants

### Credit Card Patterns

We will be defining the credit card patterns for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid credit card numbers when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const CARD_PATTERNS = {
  VISA: {
    pattern: /^4[0-9]{12}(?:[0-9]{3})?$/,
    lengths: [13, 16, 19],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Visa",
    icon: "visa",
  },
  MASTERCARD: {
    pattern:
      /^5[1-5][0-9]{14}$|^2(?:2(?:2[1-9]|[3-9][0-9])|[3-6][0-9][0-9]|7(?:[01][0-9]|20))[0-9]{12}$/,
    lengths: [16],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Mastercard",
    icon: "mastercard",
  },
  AMERICAN_EXPRESS: {
    pattern: /^3[47][0-9]{13}$/,
    lengths: [15],
    cvvLength: 4,
    name: "American Express",
    icon: "amex",
  },
  DISCOVER: {
    pattern: /^6(?:011|5[0-9]{2})[0-9]{12}$/,
    lengths: [16],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Discover",
    icon: "discover",
  },
  JCB: {
    pattern: /^(?:2131|1800|35\d{3})\d{11}$/,
    lengths: [16],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "JCB",
    icon: "jcb",
  },
  DINERS_CLUB: {
    pattern: /^3(?:0[0-5]|[68][0-9])[0-9]{11}$/,
    lengths: [14],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Diners Club",
    icon: "diners",
  },
  MAESTRO: {
    pattern: /^(?:5[0678]\d\d|6304|6390|67\d\d)\d{8,15}$/,
    lengths: [12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "Maestro",
    icon: "maestro",
  },
  UNIONPAY: {
    pattern: /^(62|88)\d{14,17}$/,
    lengths: [16, 17, 18, 19],
    cvvLength: 3,
    name: "UnionPay",
    icon: "unionpay",
  },
};
export type CardType = keyof typeof CARD_PATTERNS;
```

### Card Type Patterns

We will be defining the card type patterns for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid card types when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const CARD_TYPE_PATTERNS = {
  VISA: /^4/,
  MASTERCARD: /^5[1-5]|^2[2-7]/,
  AMERICAN_EXPRESS: /^3[47]/,
  DISCOVER: /^6011|^644|^645|^646|^647|^648|^649|^65/,
  JCB: /^35/,
  DINERS_CLUB: /^30[0-5]|^36|^38/,
  MAESTRO: /^5018|^5020|^5038|^5893|^6304|^6759|^6761|^6762|^6763/,
  UNIONPAY: /^62|^88/,
};
```

### Expiration Date Patterns

We will be defining the expiration date patterns for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid expiration dates when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const EXPIRY_PATTERNS = {
  MM_YY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])\/([0-9]{2})$/,
  MM_YYYY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])\/([0-9]{4})$/,
  MMYY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])([0-9]{2})$/,
  MMYYYY: /^(0[1-9]|1[0-2])([0-9]{4})$/,
};
```

### Accepted Cards Array

We will be defining the accepted cards array for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid credit card numbers when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const ACCEPTED_CARD_TYPES = [
  "VISA",
  "MASTERCARD",
  "AMERICAN_EXPRESS",
  "DISCOVER",
  "JCB",
  "DINERS_CLUB",
  "MAESTRO",
  "UNIONPAY",
] as const;
export type AcceptedCardType = (typeof ACCEPTED_CARD_TYPES)[number];
```

## Payment Error Messages

We will be defining the payment error messages for the credit cards we are supporting. This will help us ensure that users are entering valid credit card numbers when they enter their payment information.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const PAYMENT_ERROR_MESSAGES = {
  CARD_NUMBER_REQUIRED: "Card number is required",
  CARD_NUMBER_INVALID: "Invalid card number",
  CARD_NUMBER_LUHN_FAILED: "Card number failed security check",
  CARD_TYPE_UNSUPPORTED: "Card type is not supported",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_REQUIRED: "Cardholder name is required",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_TOO_SHORT: "Cardholder name must be at least 2 characters",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_TOO_LONG: "Cardholder name must not exceed 50 characters",
  CARDHOLDER_NAME_INVALID: "Cardholder name contains invalid characters",
  EXPIRY_DATE_REQUIRED: "Expiry date is required",
  EXPIRY_DATE_INVALID_FORMAT: "Expiry date must be in MM/YY format",
  EXPIRY_DATE_EXPIRED: "Card has expired",
  EXPIRY_DATE_TOO_FAR: "Expiry date cannot be more than 20 years in the future",
  CVV_REQUIRED: "CVV is required",
  CVV_INVALID_LENGTH: "CVV must be 3-4 digits",
  CVV_INVALID_FORMAT: "CVV must contain only numbers",
  BILLING_ADDRESS_REQUIRED: "Billing address is required for this card type",
} as const;
```

## Security Constants

We will be defining the security constants for the e-commerce platform. This will help us ensure that we are following best practices for security and protecting user data.

```typescript
// src/lib/constants/validate/payment.ts
export const SECURITY_CONSTANTS = {
  MAX_EXPIRY_YEARS_FUTURE: 20,
  MIN_CARDHOLDER_NAME_LENGTH: 2,
  MAX_CARDHOLDER_NAME_LENGTH: 50,
  CVV_MIN_LENGTH: 3,
  CVV_MAX_LENGTH: 4,
} as const;
```

## Next Steps

Now that we have our validation constants, we will start implementing the utility functions that will use these constants to validate user input across our e-commerce platform. This will help us maintain clean and consistent data, ensuring a smooth user experience.

Head over to [Formatting Utility Functions](/ecommerce-platform/utility-functions-and-validation-constants/formatting-utility-functions) to continue building out your e-commerce platform. This will help us set up the necessary utility functions for our e-commerce platform, ensuring that our data is clean and consistent.

<BackToTop />
